Aging is an intricate and crucial part of the winemaking process. To an extent, all wines are aged before they are released. Most wines sold in America are sold with the intention of immediate consumption. However, many wine lovers prefer to store bottles of wine for a while to allow their taste to evolve. This process is known as “laying wine down.”

To appreciate the full benefits of this, you need to understand what really happens as wine ages, the science behind it, and how it enhances the taste of the wine.

What Happens to Wine as It Ages?

In young wines, we can easily distinguish between their primary and secondary aromas. Examples of primary aromas in wines include tasting the plum in Merlot, citrus in Riesling, and the grassiness in Sauvignon Blanc. Secondary aromas refer to notes associated with winemaking techniques. The taste of vanilla from oak casks is an example of a secondary wine flavor. Aging wine is done to develop a wine’s tertiary aroma.

Tertiary aromas or notes arise from the wine’s development. For example, the bold fruity taste of a young wine becomes subdued and tastes more like dried fruit as the wine ages. Aging brings out more of the aroma that may have been hidden or overpowered by a younger wine’s primary aroma. Tertiary aromas that emerge from aging include notes of herbs, hay, earth, honey, mushrooms, and even stone.

Acids and alcohols react to form new compounds as wine ages. Compounds that dissolve combine to create something new. These processes are constantly ongoing at various rates and speeds. Whenever you open a bottle of wine, you access it at a different stage of its development process. Every bottle provides new aromas and nuances to taste. This is how wine ages and why its aromas keep changing and developing.

The aging process also affects the texture of wine. Aged, dry white wine can develop an oily and viscous texture, while red wines tend to become smoother as they age.

Over time, phenolic compounds, like tannins, become sediment. Phenolic compounds repel each other in young wines and are small enough to stay suspended in the liquid. They slowly lose their charge, combine and become heavier as the wine ages. Once they reach a certain size, they sink to the bottom of the bottle. These changes in phenolic compounds also change the texture of a wine.

The color of a wine is another attribute that changes as it ages and is the most pronounced indication of a wine’s age. Red wines tend to lose color as they get older. They fade from a vibrant ruby red to a browner shade that resembles tanned leather. White wines become more colorful. Young white wine is a pale yellow that almost looks like lemonade. Older white wines develop a gold hue and develop further into amber. When searching for the best-aged wines, look for browner shades in red wine and gold-white wines.

Young red wines are opaque when held against a white background. Older red wines show light colors around their edges. This is referred to as the “rim.” Oxidation causes these changes in color and opacity. The amount of air remaining in the bottleneck after the bottle is sealed determines the oxidation rate. Bottles sealed with natural corks allow minimal oxygen exchange, which is why most wines that are considered well-aged are unopened, corked bottles.

Does Wine Age in the Bottle?

Wines do age in the bottle. After the initial fermentation, the wine’s evolution and development continue. This cycle only stops once the cork is popped or the bottle is opened.

Once the wine is exposed to oxygen, oxygenation occurs. Oxygenation reduces mouthfeel and causes flat-tasting wine. Even microscopic amounts of oxygen introduced to wine through its cork can cause it to alter slowly. Slow oxygenation can introduce new interesting characteristics and changes in the wine-tasting experience.

Oxygenation is one of many factors that influence the aging of wine in bottles. Another important factor is storage temperature. Bottled wine can spoil if stored in temperatures that are too high or too cold. The ideal temperature for most wines is about 55 degrees Fahrenheit.

Do All Wines Get Better With Age?

Only a few types of wine benefit from aging — approximately 1% of wine is actually viable for long-term aging. Most wines on the market are aged enough and made to be enjoyed right away. A small handful of varieties will taste better after more aging.

Here are some red wines that generally age well:

White wines that age well include Riesling, Arinto and Chardonnay.

One of the best wines to age is port. Port is a sweet, full-bodied red wine capable of aging for decades if stored properly. In England, giving port as a christening gift was an old tradition. The idea was that the port would age for 20 years and become a delicious and special drink shared with the child when they reached the drinking age.

Several factors influence a wine’s age-worthiness, including the following:
• Sugar content: The higher the sugar content, the more age-worthy a wine is deemed to be. Desert wines and ports contain almost 10 times more sugar than a Cabernet Sauvignon and can be aged for hundreds of years.
• Fortification: A fortified wine has distilled spirit added to it. The higher alcohol levels of fortified wines make them unstable. Non-fortified wines can age better because of their lower alcohol content.
• Acidity: Non-fortified wines are made more acidic to give them extra protection against ethanol molecules. The more acidic a wine is, the better it will age in a cellar for long periods.

Knowing why wine ages will give you insights into appreciating the changes and qualities of a well-aged wine. The more you understand about wine, the easier it becomes to refine your palate and find your favorites. The art of wine tasting is a skill that can be practiced with experience and knowledge. Now that you know how wine ages, you can start looking for your next bottle to enjoy.

Marketview Liquor is a place where wine is appreciated and respected. We carry an extensive range of wines you can enjoy immediately or lay down and let them age. You can find the wines you want on our online store today.Finding the perfect bottle of red wine is all about your preferences and tastes. Sometimes you’ll want a bottle that will pair nicely with the flavors of food and snacks on the table, while other times, you’ll want to unwind alone with just an aromatic glass. No matter what you’re looking for, there’s a red wine for everyone. Learn how to choose red wine for drinking at home, spending time with friends, or pairing with food.

7 Tips for How to Select a Good Red Wine

Red wines have a long history, and people worldwide enjoy the delectable varieties that enhance meals and add sophistication to events. There are many types of red wine on the market. From well-rounded Cabernet Franc to smooth Pinot Noir to soft and fruity Merlot and more, many delicious blends make a lasting impression on the table. Whether you’re beginning your wine journey and need to find that perfect bottle or want to find the best pairing for an upcoming dinner event, we can help you narrow down your options.

Generally speaking, there are three major taste points in red wine. You can find sweet wines with a natural grape taste, crisp wines with a sour bite, and bitter wines with naturally recurring tannins to make the perfect dry glass. Every wine has a balance of these tasting points, but choosing red wine bottles involves discovering the balance you most enjoy. Often, lighter-body wines will have fewer tannins and more of that crisp, sour taste.

The wine body is one of the most crucial components of any bottle you choose. This element refers to the mouthfeel and richness of the drink. Alcohol level, grape variety, and grape sweetness at the time of harvest will affect the wine body and how it tastes and feels. The harvest time significantly impacts the body because more natural sugar remains inside as grapes ripen.

This is why wines from regions like those in Australia tend to be full-bodied and sweeter than those from colder areas, like Germany, even when they come from the same grape variety. If you know whether you prefer full-bodied or light-bodied wine, understanding what can affect the bottle will help you quickly find the most suitable glass for your occasion.

Grape varieties determine the name of the wine. Merlot grapes craft Merlot wines, Chardonnay grapes compose Chardonnay wine, and so on. The grape variety is one of the most important aspects of a bottle. Regardless of where the grapes grow, you can learn a lot about your wine by understanding the grapes. This can help you determine which new bottles to try and which are more likely to pair with specific foods.

Whether you’re planning to enhance a dinner party with a delicious bottle or want to enjoy a homemade charcuterie board by yourself, your menu can help you decide the best wine for the occasion. Some wines blend with a wide array of foods, but others are best alongside certain bites. Red wines, in general, pair well with red meats and pasta. Consider the food’s weight for more specific ideas.

For instance, a light fare of salads, fruits, and nuts will pair well with a light-bodied wine. Thick stews and creamy pasta dishes will pair well with full-bodied varieties. If you’re serving a regional dish, try to find a bottle from the same region.

5. Think About the Event

If you’re considering the menu, you’re likely already deciding whether the event calls for a particular bottle. While the menu is important in your decision, there are several other considerations, including who else will be drinking the wine or if you’re giving it to someone as a gift. Here’s how you can determine the best bottle for any event:
• Ask about preferences: Ask the host or person you are gifting the wine to what variety they prefer. If you want to surprise them with a new favorite, ask whether they prefer red, white, full-bodied, light-bodied, sweet, or dry wine for a great starting point.
• Choose a crowd-pleaser: This is especially beneficial for a large event. You can refrain from trying to pair the wine if there is a variety of food and simply grab something everyone can enjoy. Pinot Noir is an excellent choice with its medium body and versatility.
• Reach for a popular favorite: Popular varieties are great if you’re buying a bottle for someone you don’t know well. Small clues can be an excellent help here. For example, if this person has a sweet tooth, choose a sweet red wine that would pair with a delicious dessert.

Reading the label is important, especially when beginning your wine journey. When you buy a bottle or try a new glass, read the label and note what you enjoyed or disliked. This will help you find common threads between bottles and guide you to that perfect blend. For instance, you might realize you tend to reach for fruity, light-bodied wines or choose a dry red wine with aromatic features. You may notice the label indicates the wine is a blend of many grape varieties rather than a single, defining one. You can also discover the wine region and additional information on the back of the bottle, helping you narrow your choices.

Choosing a good red wine can be fun. Whether you’re on a solo journey or want to invite your friends and family to try something new, a wine tasting is an excellent way to go. Local wineries offer tastings for you to experience the best bottles in your area. If you’re looking for a bottle to pair with a specific meal, ask the experts about their thoughts. Your tasting host can provide all the insight you need into each of their bottles and ensure you find the right one to impress all your guests.

However, you can also explore any region by hosting a tasting at your home. Invite your guests to bring a bottle and craft a charcuterie board or snack table to enhance the delectable taste of the wine. Keep your guest list to 12 people or less, so everyone can enjoy a small pour from every bottle. After sipping a dozen new bottles, you’re sure to gain an idea about what you like.

Marketview Liquor offers a vast selection of wine for people all over the United States. Choosing the best red wine has never been easier because we’ll ship your favorite bottles right to your door. With great deals, like wine for less than $10 and free shipping on select bottles, you can easily try many wines to find your favorite. Browse our red wine selection for your next bottle.Those nights of having fun with friends and family are some of the most memorable experiences. Relaxing with the best drinks and good company can make a night you won’t forget. However, a bottle of wine, delicious sangria and elegant cocktails are only one part of the equation.

Unfortunately, the morning after the big event isn’t nearly as enjoyable. Hangovers can quickly disrupt your day and hurt your productivity. The best way to cure a hangover is to prevent them from occurring in the first place, but sometimes it can be challenging to tell when one will appear. In this guide, you’ll find tips for how to not get hungover and what to do if you need to cure one.

Hangovers happen after you drink too much alcohol. The more alcohol you consume, the more likely you are to feel the symptoms of a hangover later. Hangovers begin to show when your blood alcohol content lowers significantly or is close to zero. Typically, people feel the effects of a hangover in the morning after drinking. You may feel symptoms like:

Several related factors contribute to hangover symptoms. Alcohol can cause dehydration by accelerating the loss of fluids, causing symptoms like thirst, headaches and fatigue the following day. Alcohol also increases acid release, leading to stomach discomfort and nausea. Additionally, people experience inflammation in their liver, brain, pancreas and other organs when drinking alcohol, leading to body aches, discomfort and similar symptoms.

You don’t need to remove alcohol from your lifestyle to prevent hangovers. There are many safe ways to drink with friends and family so you can enjoy every occasion to its fullest and still feel great the next day. Check out these tips for actions you can take before, during and after drinking to reduce or avoid hangover symptoms the following morning.

The more alcohol you drink, the more likely you’ll experience a hangover the next day. The amount of alcohol you can safely consume will be different from everyone else. The amount of food you eat, whether you drink water and how much sleep you have can drastically affect the number of beverages you can consume. Monitoring the drinks you’re consuming and being aware of how they affect you are key for hangover prevention. A good rule of thumb is to consume no more than one beverage every hour. It’s important to have appropriate beverage sizes when adhering to this rule. A single drink could be:
• 1.5 ounces of a distilled liquor or spirit with 40% alcohol by volume (ABV)

Congeners give a distinctive character to alcoholic beverages and are a byproduct of the fermentation process as the yeast converts sugars. Congeners are toxic chemicals, and the amount present can vary by drink. Avoiding beverages with high levels of congeners can help prevent a hangover from occurring. Tequila, cognac and whiskey are often high in congeners, while rum, gin and vodka have lower levels. Generally, colored drinks will contain more congeners than clear alcohols.

As we mentioned earlier, dehydration is a cause of hangover symptoms. People tend to make more trips to the bathroom when drinking alcohol, creating fluid loss and leading to fatigue, headaches and thirst the next day. Keeping water on hand can relieve some of these problems and help you maintain adequate hydration levels through the night. Consider swapping some glasses for water or dedicating the last few hours of your occasion to only drinking water.

Similar to our first tip, you can save yourself a headache by holding yourself accountable for the amount of alcohol you drink. It’s common for people to over-pour alcohol when crafting drinks at home, which can quickly lead to harmful effects. Be sure to use the proper measuring devices and skip the guesswork. Furthermore, keep a tracker of the number of beverages you consume. Whether you download an app tracker or keep a physical note somewhere in your home, make a tally every time you pour another glass to ensure you stay within your safe limits.

Additionally, there are many ways to enjoy a flavorful drink without consuming high amounts of alcohol. For instance, adding water to your beverage can keep you hydrated, and crafting mocktails can keep you in the festive spirit while skipping the elements that can impact the next day. This way, you can skip the measuring altogether while enjoying the refreshing taste of something fun.

Eating before drinking is one of the best tips for preventing a hangover. Consuming food can slow alcohol absorption in the bloodstream, keeping your blood alcohol concentration lower and reducing hangover effects. The best foods to eat before drinking are high in protein, electrolytes and nutrients. Try preparing one of these foods or a combination of them before your next event:

Refrain from snacking on chips, crackers and similar salty foods before and while drinking. These foods can worsen bloating and irritation. Additionally, avoid refined carbs like sodas, white bread, sweet treats and pasta. These foods can lead to overeating later in the night and cause your blood sugar levels to fluctuate.

Find Other Ways to Relieve Stress Beforehand

Many people find themselves drinking to excess when they want to relieve stress. Although enjoying time with friends and family can be an excellent stress reliever, there are other steps you can take to prevent over-drinking while enjoying your time together. For instance, going to the gym is an opportunity to push your limits and work out tension from the days or weeks behind you. Other hobbies like painting, writing or going on a walk can also help you create a more positive outlook for your night. Any activity that makes you feel practical, joyful and restorative is suitable, so try different things to find what works best for you.

Be Sure to Get Enough Sleep

At the end of the night, the last step is to crawl into bed and get a restful night of sleep. Poor sleep won’t cause most hangover symptoms, but it can hinder your productivity and make you feel more tired and irritable the next morning.

Try to maintain your typical sleep schedule as much as possible. For instance, if you generally go to bed around 11 p.m., try your best to be in your room and comfortable at that same time. If you can’t stick to your regular bedtime routine, allow yourself to sleep in more than normal the next day. A night of good sleep will do wonders for your body after drinking.

You can also use some other tips to stay asleep or prepare for the following day. It may help to use an eye mask or pull your curtains over your window to give you the most uninterrupted sleep cycle. Additionally, place a glass of water and any supplements to help you the following day by your bed so you can reach for them when you wake up.

How to Stop a Hangover That Already Started

If the night got away from you and you’re feeling those terrible effects in the morning, finding a hangover cure is the best way to make the most of your day. There is no magic cure for a hangover, but you can use plenty of tricks to feel better in the meantime. Here are some ways you can stop a hangover that’s already started:

Start the Day With Tea or Coffee

Caffeine is a stimulant and can reduce grogginess, empowering you to boost productivity and find the energy to move throughout the day. Avoid adding too many sugary creamers to your drink to prevent upsetting your stomach. Ginger tea is an excellent choice if you’re facing an upset stomach because it can calm your body and relieve nausea. Coffee and tea likely won’t cure the other hangover symptoms you’re experiencing, but they can give you the boost your morning needs.

Ibuprofen and aspirin are nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) that can ease headaches and body aches. Taking one of these pain relievers with foods could help reduce or eliminate some of the more painful symptoms you’re experiencing. However, these medications can irritate your stomach. Additionally, avoiding Tylenol or Excedrin is critical if there is alcohol in your system. These medications contain acetaminophen, which can have toxic effects on your liver when combined with alcohol.

Some foods can quickly alleviate hangover symptoms. It’s important to fill your body with quality foods that make you feel good and provide the energy you need. Start your day with a bountiful breakfast of eggs, avocados, leafy greens, bananas or a bagel. These foods will be light on your stomach while replenishing the essential nutrients your body needs after a night of drinking. Avoid greasy food, which can heighten discomfort in your stomach.

Fluids will be one of your greatest assets the morning after drinking. If you didn’t have any water throughout the night, your body could be suffering from water lost during bathroom trips. Your dehydration may be severe if you’re experiencing vomiting, sweating or diarrhea. If it’s challenging to keep anything down, sipping water can help. Carry a glass or bottle with you throughout the morning and take sips whenever you can.

One study assessed the diet of those drinking excessively and found a correlation between hangovers and the food participants ate before and after drinking. The study determined that people with more zinc and vitamin B in their diets had less severe hangover symptoms. Vitamin C can also relieve your symptoms. Although you can purchase many of these vitamins as chewable tablets or pills, you can also find them in many foods. Leafy greens, chickpeas and broccoli are excellent sources of vitamin B, and tomatoes, white potatoes, strawberries and bell peppers are excellent sources of vitamin C. You can find zinc in red meats, poultry, nuts and beans.

Electrolytes balance your body and are essential for many regular functions. Your electrolytes suffer when you lose fluids from alcohol. Some foods and drinks can boost your electrolytes to help you feel better and more productive. Avocados, bananas, kale and spinach contain electrolytes, and drinks like Gatorade and Pedialyte can give you the boost you need. Consider stocking up on these foods and drinks before your next night out so you can rest assured that your hangover cure is only steps away.

If you have irritation in your stomach, try to make a refreshing smoothie. Liquids can empty the stomach faster than solid foods and might feel easier to consume. They can also help increase your blood sugar and to reduce hangover symptoms. Ingredients like dairy milk, protein powder, greek yogurt, chickpeas and fortified soy milk have the nutrients your body needs to recover, so stock up on the ones you like for your next night out.

If the thought of food makes your stomach turn, you can rely on some of your favorite fruits and veggies to make your hangover cure. Try this blended beverage recipe the morning after drinking:

You don’t need precise measurements to create the perfect beverage. Choose the ingredients you most enjoy and add as much as you’d like. Keep in mind that adding more juice, milk or water will make the drink smoother and could be easier to consume. Add more nuts or oats if you want to have a crunch in your drink to substitute solid breakfast foods.

Find the Drinks for Your Next Party at Marketview Liquor

Marketview Liquor is ready to supply your next get-together. We make finding the best wine and spirits for any occasion easy. From your favorite reds and crisp whites to note-worthy spirits, you can find everything you need and more to create a memorable night with your friends and family.

With us, you can find delicious recipes and the alcohol you need to impress all your guests. We make it easy to shop your all-time favorites or find new ones by delivering your bottles directly to your door. You can also find some of the best deals for incredible bottles, such as free shipping on select wines and bottles for less than $10. For larger gatherings, you can rely on our case discounts to supply each guest with delicious drinks all night long.

The fear of a hangover shouldn’t stop you from having fun. With the right drinking strategy and the necessary foods and vitamins, you can prevent a hangover from happening so you can enjoy your night with the ones you love most. Browse our vast wine selection or choose from our collection of spirits to find everything you need for your next party.Indulging in a glass of fine wine can be an exquisite experience, but have you ever wondered what happens when wine meets the allure of bourbon barrels? Enter the captivating realm of bourbon barrel wine, where the distinguished art of winemaking intertwines with the bold essence of bourbon. This intriguing blend of two beloved spirits has captivated the palates of wine enthusiasts and spirit connoisseurs. But what is bourbon barrel wine?

We’ll uncover what makes bourbon barrel wine truly remarkable, discover its unique characteristics and unveil some of the best bourbon barrel wine options that will delight even the most discerning palates. So, join us on this journey that combines the rich heritage of wine with the robust character of bourbon, unlocking a realm of exceptional tastes.

Bourbon barrel wine is an intriguing fusion of two distinct worlds — wine’s elegance and bourbon’s robust character. It is a type of wine that undergoes a unique aging process, where it is matured in barrels previously used to age bourbon. This aging technique imparts distinct flavors and aromas to the wine, creating a captivating taste profile that sets it apart from traditional wines.

But just how long does it take to age wine in a bourbon barrel? The aging duration can vary depending on the desired characteristics and the wine type. Typically, red wines are preferred for bourbon barrel aging due to their boldness, which can withstand the influence of the bourbon. The aging process can last anywhere from a few months to a few years.

To achieve the perfect balance, winemakers carefully monitor the aging process, tasting the wine periodically to assess its development. This meticulous attention ensures that the wine absorbs the desirable qualities from the bourbon barrel without overpowering its original character.

Several wineries worldwide have embraced this trend and are producing exceptional offerings. The possibilities are endless, from luscious Zinfandels to rich and velvety Cabernet Sauvignons. Some regions renowned for their bourbon barrel wines include California and Oregon, and even some European winemaking regions are experimenting with this technique.

What Does Bourbon Barrel Wine Taste Like?

Bourbon barrel wine offers a unique tasting experience that combines the refined nuances of wine with the distinctive tastes derived from bourbon barrel aging.

When savoring bourbon barrel wine, you can expect to encounter a symphony of tastes, including notes of vanilla, caramel and toasty oak. These elements are imparted to the wine while it ages in the bourbon barrel. The vanilla and caramel tones are often derived from the charred oak staves of the barrel, which previously held bourbon. These flavors seamlessly meld with the wine’s natural profile, enhancing its complexity.

While bourbon barrel wine does possess some bourbon-like qualities, it is essential to note that it is not meant to replicate the taste of bourbon itself. The influence of the bourbon barrel adds depth and character to the wine without overpowering its inherent grape-derived characteristics. The result is a harmonious integration of flavors, where the wine retains its identity while showcasing intriguing bourbon-inspired nuances.

Each bourbon barrel wine has its own unique flavor profile, influenced by factors such as the grape variety used, the duration of aging and the specific bourbon barrel employed. This diversity allows for a wide range of tasting experiences, from velvety and smooth to bold and robust, ensuring there is a bourbon barrel wine to suit every discerning palate.

When it comes to bourbon barrel wine, there is an array of options to explore. Here are some special types of bourbon barrel-aged wines that you should consider trying:
• Bourbon barrel-aged Cabernet Sauvignon: This red wine varietal, known for its bold and full-bodied character, undergoes the unique aging process in bourbon barrels. The result is a captivating fusion of rich dark fruit flavors, velvety tannins and subtle hints of vanilla and caramel from the barrel. Look for reputable producers like Josh Cellars or Layer Cake for outstanding examples of bourbon barrel-aged Cabernet Sauvignon varieties.
• Bourbon barrel-aged Syrah: Syrah, a robust and spicy red wine, takes on an added layer of complexity when aged in bourbon barrels. The intense dark fruit flavors intertwine with the smoky and toasty nuances of the barrel, creating a harmonious blend.
• Bourbon barrel-aged red blends: Winemakers also create captivating red blends aged in bourbon barrels that showcase the art of blending different grape varieties. These wines often exhibit a balance of fruit-forwardness, structure and the subtle influence of bourbon, resulting in a captivating medley of tastes. Explore offerings from Beringer Bros. or Sebastiani to experience the enchantment of bourbon barrel-aged red blends.
• Bourbon barrel-aged Petite Sirah: Petite Sirah, known for its dark and intense profile, embraces the aging process in bourbon barrels with exceptional results. The wine’s deep fruit flavors harmonize with the bourbon-infused vanilla and spice notes, creating a robust and captivating drinking experience.
• Bourbon barrel-aged Chardonnay: Being bourbon-barrel aged has a significant impact on this popular white wine, transforming its flavor profile and adding a distinct character. The interaction with the bourbon barrels infuses the wine with notes of vanilla, caramel and sometimes even hints of spice and toasted oak. This process enhances the richness and complexity of the wine, resulting in a unique and memorable tasting experience. Bourbon barrel aging can also contribute to a fuller body and a smoother, rounder texture in the wine.

As you explore the world of bourbon barrel wine, remember that individual preferences vary and tasting is subjective. Consider seeking recommendations from trusted wine experts or reputable retailers to discover the best bourbon barrel wine that aligns with your personal taste preferences.

Savoring a glass of bourbon barrel wine is a delightful experience that can be enhanced by considering certain factors. Here are some tips to help you fully appreciate the nuances of this unique wine:
• Decantation: Consider decanting your bourbon barrel wine before serving. This process involves pouring the wine into a decanter, allowing it to breathe and develop its flavors. Decanting can soften any assertive aromas or flavors and promote a smoother, more enjoyable tasting experience.
• Temperature: Serve your bourbon barrel wine at the optimal temperature to bring out its best qualities. Red wines are generally enjoyed at slightly cooler than room temperature, while white wines benefit from being slightly chilled. Consult the specific recommendations for your chosen bottle to ensure you serve it at the ideal temperature.
• Glassware: Use appropriate glassware to enhance your enjoyment of bourbon barrel wine. Opt for large-bowled glasses for red wines, allowing the aromas to concentrate and the flavors to unfold. The right glass can enhance the sensory experience and showcase the wine’s character.
• Food pairings: Consider the ideal food pairings that complement the flavors of your bourbon barrel wine. These wines’ robust and complex nature pairs well with grilled meats, barbecued ribs, aged cheeses or hearty stews. Experiment with different combinations to find the perfect match for your palate.
• Appreciation of nuances: Take your time to savor and appreciate the nuances in bourbon barrel wine. Take small sips, allowing the wine to coat your palate and reveal its flavors layer by layer. Pay attention to the aromas, the balance between fruit and oak and the length of the finish.

Remember, the enjoyment of bourbon barrel wine is a personal journey. Experiment, explore different bottles and discover your own preferences. Whether you’re sipping it in solitude or sharing it with friends, take pleasure in the exceptional qualities of these wines and let them transport you to a world of extraordinary tastes.

Discover the Richness of Bourbon Barrel Wine and Order From Marketview Liquor

The allure of bourbon barrel wine lies in its ability to merge the elegance of wine with the captivating essence of bourbon, creating an experience unlike any other.

As you continue your exploration, you may find yourself eager to sample these exquisite wines for yourself. Where can you purchase bourbon barrel-aged red wine? Look no further than Marketview Liquor, your trusted source for high-quality wines. With an extensive selection of bourbon barrel-aged wines, you can browse, select and order from the comfort of your own home, knowing you’re acquiring the best bourbon barrel wine available.Curious to explore the finest expressions of Chilean winemaking? Join us as we journey through Chile’s vineyards to uncover the 14 best Chilean wines. With an ever-growing market projected to expand by 6.50% between 2023-2027 and reach a market volume of about $5.33 billion in 2027, Chile is cementing its status as a prominent player in the global wine scene.

If you’ve ever wondered about the best Chilean wines or sought a comprehensive list of Chilean wines to savor, our reliable expertise will guide you in discovering the premier taste of Chilean viticulture. Discover why Chilean wines captivate wine enthusiasts worldwide.

Chilean wines stand out for their exceptional quality and diverse range of offerings. Whether you’re seeking the best red wine from Chile or the finest Chilean white wines, explore the different types of Chilean wines to help you navigate the rich tapestry of tastes and discover the perfect wine to suit your palate.

Cabernet Sauvignon reigns supreme as Chile’s flagship wine. Grown in renowned regions like Maipo Valley and Colchagua Valley, these wines showcase a robust taste of black currants, blackberries, and subtle herbal notes. With their firm structure, exceptional balance, and aging potential, Chilean Cabernet Sauvignon ranks among the world’s finest.

Chilean Sauvignon Blanc dazzles with its vibrant acidity and refreshing character. Sourced from cool-climate regions like Casablanca and Leyda Valleys, these white wines exhibit invigorating tropical fruit notes, zesty citrus notes, and a crisp, clean finish. They are perfect for warm summer days or paired with fresh seafood.

Chilean Chardonnay offers a range of styles, from unoaked and vibrant to richly oaked and buttery. Hailing from regions such as Casablanca Valley and Limarí Valley, these wines reveal tropical fruit nuances, elegant citrus undertones and an impressive complexity that showcases Chile’s winemaking finesse.

Chilean Syrah, also known as Shiraz, delivers captivating red wines with intense dark berries, black pepper, and spice. Grown in regions like Colchagua Valley and Elqui Valley, these wines offer a velvety texture, well-integrated tannins, and a memorable, long-lasting finish.

Carménère holds a special place in Chile’s winemaking heritage. Renowned for its unique profile, this grape produces medium to full-bodied red wines with a pronounced dark fruit taste, hints of green pepper, and a smooth, refined texture. Look to regions like Colchagua Valley and Rapel Valley for outstanding Carménère expressions.

Chilean Pinot Noir offers a delightful alternative for lovers of elegant and nuanced red wines. Thriving in cool-climate regions like Casablanca Valley and Bio-Bio Valley, these wines exhibit an enticing red berry taste, delicate floral notes, and a touch of earthiness. From lighter and approachable styles to more complex and structured examples, Chilean Pinot Noir always impresses.

While Cabernet Sauvignon often takes the spotlight, Chilean Cabernet Franc deserves recognition. Grown in regions like Maule Valley and Colchagua Valley, these medium-bodied red wines showcase an alluring red berry taste, subtle herbal nuances, and a touch of spice. Chilean Cabernet Franc offers a delightful alternative for those seeking a wine with finesse and character.

Chilean Merlot charms with its smoothness and approachability. From regions like Maipo Valley and Rapel Valley, these wines entice with notes of ripe plums, cherries, and subtle herbal hints. With a balanced structure, soft tannins, and a versatile nature, Chilean Merlot is an excellent choice for everyday enjoyment.

Delve into Chile’s vinicultural roots with País, an indigenous grape variety with a fascinating history. While traditionally used for simple, everyday wines, País has experienced a resurgence, resulting in more refined expressions. These wines offer light-bodied reds with bright red fruit notes, lively acidity, and a rustic charm that speaks to Chile’s winemaking traditions.

While Argentina is famous for Malbec, Chile has also produced noteworthy examples of this grape. Chilean Malbec offers a ripe dark fruit taste, floral aromas, and a velvety texture. Explore the offerings from regions like Maule Valley and Colchagua Valley to experience the unique expression of Malbec in Chile.

To sum it all up, Chilean wines encompass a wide range of varieties and styles, each bearing the mark of Chile’s unique terroir and winemaking expertise. Whether you’re drawn to powerful reds, vibrant whites, or exploring indigenous grape varieties, Chile has something extraordinary to offer.

When exploring the realm of Chilean wines, it is impossible to overlook the country’s most popular and commonly made wine — the Cabernet Sauvignon. This renowned wine holds a special place in the hearts of wine enthusiasts and is a true emblem of Chilean viticulture. This noble grape variety has flourished in Chile’s diverse terroirs, showcasing its remarkable potential and earning its place as a symbol of Chilean winemaking excellence.

Chile’s favorable climate and exceptional growing conditions, particularly in regions such as Maipo Valley and Colchagua Valley, have provided ideal circumstances for cultivating Cabernet Sauvignon grapes. These regions have mastered the art of harnessing the grape’s rich taste and distinct characteristics.

Chilean Cabernet Sauvignon wines boast bold and concentrated notes of black currants, blackberries, and hints of herbs. They are characterized by their remarkable structure, balanced acidity, and smooth tannins. These wines often exhibit a remarkable aging potential, evolving gracefully over time to reveal additional layers of complexity.

When exploring Chilean wine, a journey that includes a selection of the best wines from Chile would only be complete with savoring the magnificence of Chilean Cabernet Sauvignon. Its unparalleled reputation and consistently exceptional quality make it a must-try for wine enthusiasts seeking the pinnacle of Chilean viniculture.

Delving into the secret behind Chilean wine’s excellence reveals a combination of factors that make it truly exceptional. This section explores what sets Chilean wine apart, from its meticulous winemaking techniques to the unique taste that tantalizes the palate.

One of the primary reasons for the greatness of Chilean wine lies in the meticulous craftsmanship that goes into its production. Chilean winemakers embrace a commitment to quality, employing traditional and modern winemaking techniques that showcase the best attributes of each grape variety. With a focus on sustainable practices and respect for the land, Chilean winemakers preserve the natural integrity of the grapes, resulting in wines of exceptional purity.

Another contributing factor is Chile’s diverse terroir, which provides various microclimates and soil compositions. This allows for cultivating numerous grape varieties, each expressing unique characteristics. Chile’s terroir imparts a distinct taste, from the coastal regions cooled by Pacific breezes to the high-altitude vineyards nestled in the Andes Mountains, ensuring a vibrant and diverse wine scene.

Chilean wine delights the senses with its unique flavor profile. Red wine from Chile exhibits a perfect balance of fruitiness, structure, and elegance. Cabernet Sauvignon, Chile’s flagship red grape variety, offers rich notes of black currants and blackberries, supported by well-integrated tannins and a touch of herbal complexity. Other red varieties like Carmenère and Syrah showcase their own unique attributes, providing velvety textures and captivating spice notes.

Chilean white wines, including the best Chilean white wines, offer refreshing alternatives that excite the palate. Sauvignon Blanc displays vibrant acidity, tropical fruit notes, and zesty citrus undertones, while Chardonnay exhibits a spectrum of styles, from crisp and unoaked to rich and buttery, with elegant fruit nuances.

The consistent sunshine and cooling influences from the Pacific Ocean contribute to Chilean wines’ excellent ripening conditions, enhancing the grapes’ flavor concentration and allowing for optimal phenolic development.

Chilean wine’s remarkable quality can be attributed to a combination of factors that make it truly exceptional. From the dedication of skilled winemakers to the diverse terroir that shapes each wine’s character, Chilean wines consistently rank among the world’s finest.

14 Chilean Wines You Should Try

If you’re a wine enthusiast eager to explore Chile’s finest offerings, we present a curated selection of the best red and white wines that this remarkable wine-growing country has to offer. With a commitment to quality and an abundance of diverse terroirs, Chile has become renowned for producing exceptional wines that captivate the senses.

From robust and flavorful reds to crisp and refreshing whites, these Chilean wines are an invitation to indulge in the richness and diversity of Chilean viticulture. So, get your wine glasses ready, and let’s explore the best red and white wines from Chile.

When it comes to exceptional red wines, Chile stands out as a powerhouse in the wine world. With a wide range of grape varietals and distinct terroirs, Chilean red wines offer a captivating array of tastes and aromas. Each wine tells a unique story, from bold Cabernet Sauvignon to elegant Pinot Noir. Explore the diverse world of red wines from Chile and discover the perfect bottle to suit your taste preferences:
• Santa Rita 120 Merlot: This Chilean Merlot showcases a beautiful balance of ripe red fruit notes, soft tannins, and a velvety texture. It’s an approachable and versatile wine that pairs well with a variety of dishes.
• Los Vascos Cabernet Sauvignon: This wine boasts an intense taste of fresh olives, currants, and gooseberry leaves. It has an elegant structure and a long, satisfying finish. The Los Vascos Cabernet Sauvignon is a testament to Chile’s ability to produce world-class varieties of this wine.
• Veramonte Reserva Carmenere: Carmenere is Chile’s signature grape and this wine showcases its full potential. With rich plum and blackberry notes, velvety tannins, and a touch of spice, it exemplifies the unique character of Chilean Carmenere.
• Pedro Parra Vinista: This Pais wine is crafted by renowned soil expert Pedro Parra, who focuses on terroir-driven winemaking. The Vinista offers a complex blend of red fruit, earthy notes, and well-integrated tannins, reflecting the distinct characteristics of its vineyard site.
• Lapostolle Cuvee Alexandre Merlot: A premium Merlot from the iconic Lapostolle winery, this wine displays ripe black cherry and plum notes, along with hints of olives. The Lapostolle Cuvee Alexandre Merlot is a luxurious and well-crafted wine that showcases the elegance of Chilean Merlot.
• Tarapaca Gran Reserva Etiqueta Azul Red Blend: This red blend combines Cabernet Sauvignon, Syrah, Cabernet Franc as well as Malbec to create a wine with layers of dark fruit, spice, and a touch of oak. It’s a bold and expressive wine that exemplifies the artistry of Chilean winemaking.
• Don Melchor Cabernet Sauvignon: Considered one of Chile’s most prestigious wines, Don Melchor is a benchmark for excellence. This Cabernet Sauvignon offers an exquisite blackcurrant taste, refined tannins, and a long, persistent finish. It’s a wine that truly represents the best of Chilean winemaking.

Chilean white wine is renowned for its vibrant taste and refreshing qualities, offering a delightful drinking experience. From crisp Sauvignon Blanc to elegant Chardonnay, Chilean whites showcase the country’s diverse terroirs and winemaking expertise. Discover the top white wines from Chile that deserve a place on your wine list:
• Santa Rita 120 Chardonnay: A crowd-pleasing Chardonnay with notes of ripe tropical fruits, citrus notes, and a hint of vanilla. It’s a refreshing and versatile white wine that can be enjoyed on its own or paired with seafood and poultry dishes.
• Cono Sur Chardonnay: Known for their commitment to sustainable practices, Cono Sur produces this vibrant Chardonnay with notes of apple, pear, and a touch of oak. It’s a well-balanced wine with a crisp acidity that pairs well with a variety of dishes.
• Cono Sur Sauvignon Blanc: This Sauvignon Blanc showcases zesty citrus aromas, a tropical fruit taste, and a vibrant acidity. It’s a refreshing and lively white wine that is perfect for warm weather or as an aperitif.
• Concha Y Toro Casillero del Diablo Chardonnay: A popular choice among Chardonnay lovers, this wine offers the taste of ripe pineapple, peach, and vanilla. Casillero del Diablo Chardonnay is a smooth and creamy wine with a touch of oak that pairs well with creamy pasta dishes or roasted chicken.
• Concha Y Toro Frontera Sauvignon Blanc: With its bright citrus taste, herbaceous undertones, and crisp acidity, Concha Y Toro’s Sauvignon Blanc is a delightful choice for those seeking a refreshing white wine. It’s a great value wine that can be enjoyed on its own or paired with salads and seafood.
• Los Vascos Chardonnay: This Chardonnay from Los Vascos exhibits notes of ripe pear, tropical fruits, and subtle vanilla notes. It strikes a nice balance between richness and freshness, making it a versatile wine for various occasions.
• Veramonte Reserva Sauvignon Blanc: With its vibrant aromas of grapefruit, lime, and tropical fruits, Veramonte’s Sauvignon Blanc captures the essence of Chilean white wines. It’s crisp and lively and pairs wonderfully with seafood and light salads.

Whether you prefer the robust allure of red wines or the refreshing elegance of whites, these Chilean wines are a testament to the exceptional winemaking tradition in Chile. Embark on a journey and savor the unique taste, distinct characteristics, and undeniable quality that have made Chilean wines a true delight for wine enthusiasts worldwide.

The wines of Chile offer an incredible array of tastes, styles, and grape varieties that are sure to captivate wine enthusiasts. From the 14 best Chilean wines to the diverse selection available, exploring Chilean wine is a journey worth embarking upon. With their meticulous craftsmanship, diverse terroir, and exceptional flavor profiles, Chilean wines have rightfully earned their place among the finest in the world.

To experience the excellence of Chilean wine firsthand, we encourage you to explore the extensive selection of Chilean wines available at Marketview Liquor. With our vast range of offerings, you can conveniently order your favorite Chilean wines and discover new treasures. Indulge in the richness and complexity of Chilean wines and let them transport you to the heart of South American viniculture. Cheers to the delights of Chilean wine!When people first learn how to taste wine, they learn to swirl it in their glass. One reason for doing this is to expand the wine’s surface area, letting it “breathe” by increasing its contact with the air. This process, called aeration, can help to release the wine’s aromas and flavors to enhance the tasting experience.

Aerating your wine is often the best way to enjoy its full flavors and there are several ways to do it. Many people use an aerator or decanter to maximize the wine’s surface area and oxygen exposure. These devices accomplish the same function but use different processes and are best suited for different situations.

What Is an Aerator?

A wine aerator is a small device that aerates wine as it pours from the bottle. You most often attach or insert an aerator into the neck of the wine bottle or hold it in your hand. Designs range from simple glass bulbs with funnels to electric devices that are both aerators and wine pourers. Some aerators disperse the wine through different spouts during the pour, while others introduce air into the device as the wine travels through.

Regardless of which style of aerator you use, wine aerators expose the wine to air as you pour the bottle, rapidly increasing the wine’s oxygen exposure. This process releases flavor and aroma complexities of the wine faster and more efficiently than simply swirling the wine in a glass. It also helps to soften the wine’s tannins and allow fruity and floral aromas to shine. You know your wine has enough aeration when you see bubbles as soon as it hits the glass.

A decanter is a container typically made of glass or crystal that aerates wine before you’re ready to serve it. Decanters may have a straight or curved funnel and a small, medium or broad base. Some may have decorative elements that help further increase the wine’s exposure to air. Decanters aerate the wine as you pour it in and while it holds the wine.

To use a decanter, slowly pour the bottle’s contents into the funnel or neck. The wine will make its way over the interior surfaces, opening up as it travels. You can let the wine rest for as long as it needs to aerate and serve from the decanter instead of the bottle.

What Is the Difference Between an Aerator and Decanter?

While aerators and decanters aerate the wine by exposing it to oxygen, these devices have unique characteristics and benefits. Compare a wine aerator versus a decanter by considering their differences:

Mature wines sometimes contain sediments — grainy solids left over from fermentation. While sediments aren’t usually an issue in younger wines, you must take special care with older wines. One advantage of decanters is that they allow you to see sediments as you pour from the bottle and prevent them from reaching your glass.

Sommeliers use a flashlight or candle to avoid pouring sediments from mature red or white wines into a decanter. Illuminating the bottle’s neck as they pour lets them see the sediments so they know when to stop.

The optimal temperature for wine storage is different than the optimal temperature for serving it. While many people use dual-zone refrigerated wine coolers to mitigate this issue, there may still be times when the wine you want is too cold for serving.

If a white wine comes out of your cellar too chilled, a decanter is the best choice to bring the wine up to the right temperature. A decanter’s larger surface area helps gradually increase the wine’s temperature as it aerates.

One of the most significant wine aerator advantages is its speed and ease. Because you attach an aerator to the bottle as you pour, you get nearly instant aeration right into your glass. This feature makes aerators ideal for casual dinners or when you need to increase your wine’s air exposure quickly.

A decanter is an excellent choice if you have more time to aerate your wine. Wine can rest for multiple hours in a decanter without spoiling, so you can pour the wine hours before you plan to serve your guests. However, the flavors of older wines can begin to fade if you decant them for too long, so it’s best to decant these wines immediately before serving.

You might also use a decanter when your wine needs more time to aerate. For example, medium- to full-bodied red wines with high tannin often need to aerate longer.

Another difference between aerators and decanters is their presentation. While some aerators are more visually attractive than others, a decanter provides a more sophisticated, refined presentation. Pouring your wine from an embellished crystal decanter enhances your guests’ wine-drinking experience, honors wine’s rich history and creates ambiance for a dinner party or event.

Do You Need an Aerator, Decanter or Both?

Whether you need an aerator or a decanter depends on your goals. Here are a few considerations to remember when deciding between an aerator and a decanter:
• Occasion: If you primarily plan to drink wine casually, an aerator will work just fine for helping your wines breathe and illuminating their complex flavor notes. Aerators are easy and quick to use, whether for one person or a crowd. If you enjoy the choreography of decanting wine and the beauty of the glassware or want to create a unique wine-tasting experience, a decanter is a perfect choice.
• Wine choices: Decanters tend to be the best option for aerating expensive, mature wines. If you prefer less expensive wines, an aerator will serve your purposes.
• Ease of cleaning: It’s essential to clean aerators and decanters regularly. When it comes to ease of cleaning, aerators are the clear winner. These devices are smaller and simpler, so rinsing them with warm water is easy. Decanters’ size and curved shapes can make them more challenging to clean.
• Price: With some research, you can find aerators and decanters to meet any budget. However, decanters tend to be more expensive because they are larger and have a greater variety of styles. Some truly beautiful and unique decanters can cost several hundred dollars. Aerators tend to be the more affordable option, although you can also find high-end aerators for sale.

Aerating and decanting can both bring out the subtleties in the flavors and aromas of your wine. Deciding whether to use an aerator or a decanter depends on your specific wine, time allotment, wine temperature and the ambiance you intend to create.

When you need a wine aerator to bring out the complexities in any glass, turn to Marketview Liquor. Besides our wide selection of wines, Marketview Liquor has wine gifts and accessories, including wine aerators and stoppers. Whether you want to add an aerator to your collection of wine accessories or find a gift for a special person in your life, Marketview Liquor has you covered.Residing just East of Paris toward France’s northern tip is a quaint and calm region that significantly impacts the world. The region is Champagne, one of the world’s leading wine producers.

People worldwide know the Champagne region for the sparkling wine that shares its name. Champagne is the only region in the world legally permitted to produce this beloved beverage, and local winemakers do so to global acclaim. The region comprises five distinct districts, each known to make a unique variety of Champagne.

Check out our map of the Champagne region and continue reading to discover the fascinating traits that characterize each district and the varieties they produce.

Champagne is a cool region with lush forests and mineral-rich soil. The geography and climate position Champagne to grow acidic grapes that lend themselves to bubbly drinks. Each of Champage’s five districts offers a unique expression of the region’s conditions, resulting in a distinct variation of its namesake beverage. Here is an overview of Champage’s wine-producing districts.

Montagne de Reims is in the northeastern portion of Champagne. This district has the most diverse range of soil compared to the other four. As a result, Montagne de Reims produces the three major grape varieties that grow in Champagne — Chardonnay, Pinot Noir and Pinot Meunier. Of these three varieties, Montagne de Reims is most renowned for its Pinot Noir. Most of Champagne’s Pinot Noir grapes come from the Montagne de Reims district.

Côte des Blancs is in the center of the Champagne region. This location features chalky soil due to the prominence of limestone. The chalky soil is ideal for cultivating the acidic white grapes used to produce Blanc de Blancs and Chardonnay.

Vallée de la Marne is a district along the Marne river. Its riverside positioning fills the district’s soil with sand and clay, easily accumulating frost during Champagne’s brisk mornings. These conditions help growers in Vallée de la Marne produce exceptional grapes for Pinot Meunier. However, the district is also a prominent producer of Pinot Noir and Chardonnay.

Côte de Sézanne is a district in the southern corner of Champagne with traits similar to Côte des Blancs. However, the soil is slightly less chalky, meaning the grapes it produces are lower in acidity yet more aromatic. Côte de Sézanne produces excellent Chardonnay, though it sees less mainstream acclaim than its counterpart to the northeast.

Aube is a satellite district that resides outside the primary Champagne region. This district is deeper south than the rest of Champagne, giving it a warmer climate with less of the chalky soil that the other four feature. Aube’s conditions and the innovative vinification methods its growers employ produce fine Pinot Noir grapes. As a result, Aube boasts an upward trend in popularity.

Order French Champagne to Your Door With Marketview Liquor!

You can experience the splendor of authentic French Champagne by ordering from Marketview Liquor. We carry a wide selection of Champagne and ship to over 40 states. To discover the varieties we have to offer, please browse our Champagne selection and place your order online today!Cabernet sauvignons and merlots are two wildly popular and well-established red wine varietals. They’re so beloved that they rank as the two most-planted wine grape varietals globally — over 840,000 acres for cabernet sauvignon and 657,300 acres for merlot.

However, if you’re like most people and don’t carry a sommelier or wine expert certificate, it can be hard to distinguish between the two. Cabernet sauvignon and merlot wines share many similarities to the naked eye, but their sips can carry vast, subtle differences for the discerning tongue to untangle. The two wines also have different food pairings despite their similarities.

Learn some terms and descriptions commonly used when wine tasting to help you better understand the differences between merlot and cabernet sauvignon. Then, appreciate the rich heritage between these two delicious red wines — and impress your friends along the way — with this in-depth cabernet sauvignon versus merlot guide.

The difference between merlot and cabernet comes down to things like the tannins, color, body, bouquet, acidity, flavor, and strength. We dive into each one below.

Cabernet sauvignon hails from the legendary wine region of Bordeaux, France. Its grapes grow best in warmer, milder climates. Vineyards grow them in nearly every wine-producing area of the world, from the mountain foothills of Chile to California’s golden groves to Australia’s outback vineyards.

What distinguishes cabernet sauvignon from the almost-as-beloved merlot — and other types of red wine, for that matter? Explore the unique taste profile and composition of cabernet sauvignon below.

Unlike merlot wine, Cabernet sauvignons grapes carry medium-to-high tannin levels. The high tannin levels mean these grape varietals produce a bolder, mouth-drying base. Tannins interact with the proteins in your saliva to cause the astringent drying sensation you’ll notice while drinking a cabernet sauvignon. The tannins found in wine will soften and become less abrasive as the wine ages. Winemakers can also coax additional fruity and earthy tasting notes for their cabernet sauvignon bottles.

On-the-vine cabernet sauvignon grapes are a distinct periwinkle blue. Once picked, fermented and bottled, a glass of cabernet carries a lush, deep red burgundy coloration with a noticeably lighter scarlet rim. The grapes have a high skin-to-pulp ratio, which is the primary factor in the dark color you see in a cabernet sauvignon. Other cabernet sauvignon color notes include:
• Opaque centers, with younger cab savs containing even denser, less translucent cores.
• Faded rims, with a glass of cabernet sauvignon lightest where it meets the glass

Cabernet Sauvignon is a full-bodied red wine. It tops the list of robust red varietals, carrying some of the lushest, thickest sips that will coat most of the mouth and linger. Many describe cabernet sauvignon’s body as unctuous, gravelly, rich and deep. The region the grapes grow in will also impact the wine’s body. Cool climate wines like the cabernet sauvignon will be drier and have more noticeable notes of herbs and vegetables than a warm-climate varietal, which will taste more of ripe fruit and spice. Its full-bodied composition also means this wine type:
• Is on the strong side, averaging between 13.5 to 15% alcohol by volume
• Is best served at slightly below room temperature

One of the defining features of cabernet sauvignon is its bell pepper aroma. Decanting a fresh bottle of cabernet sauvignon will introduce the nose to notes of peppers, cassis, dark chocolate, peppercorns, pencil shavings and figs. The aroma may remind you of being deep in a forest or sitting around a campfire due to the wine’s time spent aged in oak.

However, don’t let its earthy and savory-leaning bouquet mislead you. Drinking a glass of cabernet sauvignon will also present mild fruit notes, most notably black currants and ripe dark berries. Read more on the fruity versus dry flavor profiles of cabs below.

Unblended, pure cabernet sauvignon is a medium-acidity wine. The wines carry a pleasant amount of pucker and tart that hits your tongue upfront before giving way to its earthier and sugary notes.

Cabernet Sauvignon is one of the driest red wine varietals on the market — indeed, they’re one of the driest wines altogether! Thanks primarily to its robust body, a sip of cabernet sauvignon will feel denser and heavier on the tongue, therefore creating that familiar, mouth-drying sensation from the high amount of tannins. Cabernet Sauvignon has very little residual sugar because winemakers allow the yeast to ferment for long periods and consume the sugar. The lack of sugar is what creates a dry wine.

Cabernet sauvignon’s bold, full body and high tannin count are the one-two punch behind its moderate to intense strength. Depending on the soil quality where the grapes grew, its maceration techniques, oak processing and aging amount, the balance between a cab sav’s vegetal, spice and fruit notes will vary. A French cabernet sauvignon is likely to be much earthier and more robust than a more fruit-forward Argentinian varietal. One thing is sure, though — you’ll get nuance in a good bottle of cabernet sauvignon, presenting you with a rich-tasting glass of wine great on its own or paired with food.

A cabernet sauvignon’s finish is robust and earthy, blending sharp spices with smooth herbs and pops of wild dark berries. You’ll hear many people describe a cabernet sauvignon’s finish with flavors like anise, peppercorn, cassis, ripe dark berries and fresh-cut wood. The finish from a cab sav will leave you with a long aftertaste due to the tannins and full body.

Cabernet sauvignon is a red wine whose flavor profile blends savory with pops of fruit. Of those fruit tasting notes, flavors and aromas skew more toward wild, foraged, and tart produce. You’ll taste things like:

Winemakers allow most cabernet sauvignons to age in oak barrels. However, the oak-aging process aims to finesse the tannins present within the wine, since oak barrels also contain tannins that affect a final bottle’s flavor. The aging process mellows the tannins naturally found in the cab sav to produce a wine that isn’t as overpowering.

Oak-aged cabernet sauvignon integrates its bold, peppery profile with the vanilla, toasted or smoky qualities of oak tannins, creating a final cabernet sauvignon with increased flavor and structure complexity.

Like many other wine grape varietals, merlot calls the Bordeaux region of France home. Cultivated in the late 1700s, merlot grapes are a younger varietal in the red wine family. However, merlot wine marries unique elements of sweetness, smoothness and spice unmatched by most other varietals, catapulting it to a flavor profile all its own.

A glass of merlot contains low, subtle amounts of tannins, particularly compared to other red wines like a Bordeaux or cabernet sauvignon. This low tannin count is a significant contributor to merlot’s silky, fruit-forward taste instead of a mouth-drying full-bodied pour. There are still some tannins present in merlot, though. If you’re sensitive to tannins or don’t like the dry mouthfeel, a pinot noir or a grenache are two reds with lower tannin levels.

Merlot wines come in a signature ruby red. Their centers are darker and opaque, with little light passing through. As merlot ages, its colors and cores will further lighten to a garnet color.

A standard glass of merlot will also carry sharp rim variation. Merlot rims have a distinct orange edge — a color not often present in other red wine types. Other color distinctions for merlots include the following.
• Merlot rims darken as they age, changing from orange to firehouse brick red

Merlot carries an airy, refreshing but fragrant body. Sips will hit the front and center of your tongue, then quickly glide away, leaving traces of sweet summer fruits. The overall effect is a red wine type with delightful suppleness, drinkable by itself or paired with a wide range of foods.

Merlot counts as a full-bodied wine because of its high alcohol content, typically above 13.5%. Despite its full body, a merlot is still easy to drink because of its lower tannin levels.

Smell a glass of merlot, and you’ll experience scents of cherries, raspberries, licorice, plums and espresso. Its fruit-forward palate is one of merlot’s most defining characteristics. However, those grown in cooler climates like classic French merlot carry slightly more structure, adding earthier upticks like tobacco, mocha and cassis to smells and sips.

When it comes to acidity, merlot sits in the middle of the red wine pack. It displays refined pops of sweet and tart, softened by the lower tannin count and medium-light body.

Merlot has a dry flavor profile with virtually no residual sugar left after fermentation.

However, merlot’s dry versus sweet classification can be confusing to novices. Even though merlot is a fundamentally fruit-forward red wine, it lacks a defining sugary-sweet aftertaste. Consider what it’s like to eat a strawberry-flavored piece of candy versus an actual strawberry to illustrate the difference. The former is overtly, almost syrupy sweet, while the latter is much more delicate. Merlot is low in sugar, but the fruity aroma helps trick the brain into thinking it tastes a touch sweeter than it is.

A merlot’s strength depends on whether it comes from a warm climate — such as a Californian merlot or an Australian merlot — or a cool one — such as a French, Italian or Chilean merlot varietal.
• Cool weather merlot is decidedly more intense, integrating a bit more pungent, earthier flavors alongside red fruits.
• Hot weather merlot maintains that juicy, berry, refreshing zip beloved of this red wine type.

Both warm and cool-climate merlots contain a characteristically silky finish. Merlots maintain that signature smooth, even and velvety balance from the tip of the tongue to the back of the throat, providing a mellow end to each sip

Merlots are among the most fruit-forward of all red wines, making them a highly approachable and flexible beverage choice. Merlot’s lush fruity notes often include flavors like:

Merlots tend to receive medium-age barrel processing, meaning they age a minimum of eight to 12 months. It’s just enough time to introduce more decadent, in-depth sweet notes to the varietal, reminiscent of cocoa beans, espresso powder and even smoke. The oak aging further softens the tannins in the merlot.

Merlot vs Cabernet Sauvignon: How to Pick Between the Two

Cabernet sauvignon and merlot can be confusing given their shared lineage and some congruent characteristics. To complicate matters, both comprise the signature base of Bordeaux blends, a popular red wine mixture that aims to highlight the best of both these varietals.

What’s the real difference between Merlot and Cabernet Sauvignon — and how do you know which to pick for a particular meal, event, or nightcap? Find out once and for all with this Merlot/Cabernet Sauvignon comparison.

Both merlot and cabernet sauvignon derive from the same parent grape — the cabernet franc. Sharing a branch on the family vine means these two varietals maintain a handful of similarities, namely when it comes to their color, strength, and dryness levels:
• Both are moderate to intensely strong, carrying bright flavor profiles and enticing unique sensations on the tongue.
• These wines take oak-barrel treatments well.
• These are dry red wines — indeed, they’re considered two of the driest commercial red wine types in the world.

Like any siblings, merlot and cabernet sauvignon maintain significant differences. When it comes to merlot vs cabernet sauvignon, here’s what you can expect to see different:
• Cabernet sauvignon is a savory, earthy-driven wine, particularly when grown in cooler climates.
• Cabernet sauvignon’s body is fuller, heavier and more robust, lingering for longer on the tongue than merlot’s medium-body, quicker finish.
• Merlot is less tannin-pronounced, without as strong a drying or prickling sensation in the mouth.
• Though close, a merlot’s body should be a slightly lighter ruby red than cabernet sauvignon’s rich burgundy, especially if the merlot has aged.
• Merlot rims are orange, whereas cabernet sauvignons are gradient shades of red.
• Cabernet sauvignon will be more translucent around glass rims and edges than merlot.

Opt for a bright bottle of merlot next time you or your friends are in the following situations:
• You’re searching for a bottle of red wine to complement various foods or cuisines, such as during a potluck.
• You’re looking to be generally more budget-conscious, as more merlots grow stateside and thus tend to be more affordable.

Go for a delicious bottle of cabernet sauvignon if you or your party:
• Crave a glass of wine to savor on its own.
• Are fans of dry Oregon chardonnays, Australian shiraz or tempranillo.
• Are drinking indoors on a cool or winter evening.
• Want to experiment with higher-aged or oakier wines

Having trouble choosing between Merlot and Cabernet Sauvignon? Good news! You don’t have to settle for just one. A blend of both wines is also popular, like the Bordeaux Blend. Their unique flavors, tannin, and acidity complement each other. Merlot softens the harsh acidity of Cabernet Sauvignon making it smoother and less drying. In return, the acidic Cabernet Sauvignon gives merlot a fresher flavor. The combination creates a delicious wine blend.

Looking for quick answers to common questions about the differences between cabernet and merlot wine? Here are some typical questions customers ask.

What Is the Difference Between Merlot and Cabernet Sauvignon?

Merlot wine has a fruitier taste and a lighter color, while cabernet sauvignon is earthier with a deeper red hue. Cabernet sauvignon also has more tannins, giving it a stronger mouth-drying feel and a flavor that lingers longer on the palate. While the two wines have many similarities, such as sharing the same parent grape and similar strength, their differences make each distinct.

What Kind of Wine Is Cabernet Sauvignon?

Cabernet sauvignon is a red wine varietal. It originated in Bordeaux, France, and has a full body, medium acidity and a dry taste. Its flavor is earthy with notes of tart sweetness.

What Does Cabernet Sauvignon Wine Taste Like?

This wine varietal has a savory flavor with pops of fruitiness, including notes of blackberries, black currants, black cherries, figs, black plums, boysenberries and blueberries. The wine also ages in oak barrels, adding a layer of vanilla or toasted flavor. The flavor might also vary based on the climate where it is produced. In cool temperatures, the wine has more robust vegetable and herb notes, while warmer- climate varieties taste more like fruit and spice.

What Color of Wine Is Cabernet Sauvignon?

Cabernet sauvignon fits among the red wine family — this particular varietal has a deep burgundy hue. The wine has the lightest color around the rim, closer to scarlet. It also has an opaque center, especially after it has aged for a long time.

This wine variety is dry. Cabernet sauvignon is one of the driest wines sold, especially among red wines. This dryness comes from a lack of sugar because winemakers who ferment cabernet sauvignon allow the yeast to consume all the sugar, leaving the wine with its signature dry taste.

Merlot, like cabernet sauvignon, has a dry flavor profile due to a long fermentation process in which the yeast consumes most of the sugar. While this wine varietal is dry, it has a strong, fruity aroma, which often makes wine drinkers think that it is much sweeter. Merlot also has low levels of tannins, a substance that often creates a dry mouthfeel. The wine has lush fruity notes and oak notes of coffee and cocoa.

What Is the Taste of Merlot Wine?

Merlot wine has a fruit-forward taste with notes of many red fruits, like raspberries, black cherries and dark fruit jam. The wine also has flavors like mocha, mint, eucalyptus and plum. When it undergoes oak barrel aging, it takes on new flavors, like cocoa beans and espresso powder — sometimes even a smoky taste.

Which Is Better, Merlot or Cabernet Sauvignon?

When people are asking who wins when it comes down to merlot vs cabernet, they are often wondering which is the better wine. That’s going to depend on the wine drinker, as there’s no one answer for if merlot is better than cabernet or if cabernet is better than merlot. Your best bet is to try both kinds and decide for yourself.

For those who prefer fruitier wines, merlot is a better choice. This wine is less acidic and slightly sweeter. Cabernet sauvignon has a much earthier taste with strong vegetal, spice and tart fruit notes. Both wines have lower sugar content, making them drier, but merlot has lower tannins and a more potent fruit aroma, making it seem sweeter and giving it a silkier mouthfeel.

Discover and Compare the World of Merlot and Cabernet Sauvignon Red Wines at Marketview

The world of red wines is rich, fascinating and — at times — overwhelming. At Marketview Liquor, we offer an extensive yet approachable catalog of cabernet sauvignon and merlot wines in-store and online, available to ship directly to your front door. Make your red wine comparisons easier with our online search features, filtering everything from price and points to subregions and vintage years. Browse our online selection, order your next wine case of merlot, cabernet sauvignon or both and give these delicious, complex wines a try!California is renowned for its wine for good reasons — California is the production site for almost 90% of American wines. The Golden State is the fourth-largest district for winemaking across the globe. More than 200 million wine cases are sealed each year, and the industry generates $32 billion for the state. You can discover why California wine is in such high demand from the comfort of your own home by ordering wine online sourced from California’s top wine regions.

In this guide to California wine regions, you can learn more about today’s top wine varietals and wine areas in California. To start, we’ll cover what makes wine country in California special, what an American Viticultural Area (AVA) is and the best California wine regions.

Different environmental factors that influence the ability of vineyards to grow in California and the types of wines available are what make California wine country so unique and special.

The climate and terrain in California lead to an abundant growing season for California wine grapes. Additionally, harvesting practices, soil and weather all contribute to what makes California wine country special.
• Soil: Soil in California is a mix of traces of sandstone and red and white clay infused with volcanic minerals. The soil becomes more clay-like the farther south the region. Many grape varietals flourish in dryer types of soil, so the California soil is ideal for vineyards.
• Terrain: The topography in California includes mountainside slopes, rolling golden hills and deep valleys. As you travel south, the terrain starts to flatten.
• Weather: California is known for its pleasant, temperate weather. Summers in California are often warm and dry with little humidity, and winter is typically cooler but comfortable with modest rainfall. Even in the more mountainous regions, freezing temperatures are rare in California, which makes it ideal for growing wine grapes.
• Growing season: Growing season varies depending on the region. The cooler temperatures in Northern California tend to produce smaller yields overall compared to the vineyards in the warmer, southern regions. Cool-climate grapes remain on the vine longer, and as a result, these grapes result in sweet and less acidic wines.
• Farming practices: Farming practices for a large portion of California vineyards include organic and biodynamic practices. Several California vineyards also use dry farming as a growing technique.

Several types of white and red wines from California are produced every year. Riesling and Semillon are two types of popular white wines, while Petite Sirah and Cabernet Franc are red wines produced in California.
• Riesling: This California white wine is light and tart. Riesling grapes are rarer among vineyards, so be sure to take the opportunity to sample this wine when you can. The milder temperatures among regions from the Central Coast allow these grapes to thrive, giving the naturally high acidity more complex floral and citrus notes. Tasting notes also include ginger, honeydew, fennel, tangerine and smoke.
• Semillon: Semillons come in various tastes, colors and textures, and you can typically identify a Semillon by the sensations produced in your mouth. Semillons from California are generally medium-acidity, medium-bodied and creamier in texture and taste. If you want something between a California Sauvignon Blanc and Chardonnay, choose a Semillon. Tasting notes include mango, papaya, apricots and chamomile.
• Petite Sirah: Beyond its French homeland, California is one of the only areas that plant Petite Sirah vines in a significant acreage. Petite Sirah is known for its intensity, full body, high tannins, high acidity and a lingering feeling in the mouth. The resulting puckering sensation means this wine pairs well with high-umami or creamy dishes. Tasting notes include black cherry, raspberry, lavender, licorice and lingonberry.
• Cabernet Franc: The Cabernet Franc is another featured red wine from California with modest plantings in the North and Central regions. Expect a lush, fruity wine that still maintains peppery and pleasant spice notes. With a sweet and savory balance, a California Cabernet Franc can meet both taste preferences. Tasting notes include mint, stewed plums, strawberries and black and white peppercorn.

These white and red wines are just the tip of the iceberg. California boasts a wide selection of wine varietals, though the ideal region for growing each varies.

What Is an American Viticultural Area (AVA)?

Each bottle of California wine includes the appellation, or geographical origin, where the grapes were grown. An American Viticultural Area (AVA) is a federally recognized growing region or political boundary that defines an appellation. An AVA is a region that is defined by its specific climatic or geographic features that impact how the grapes are grown and distinguish it from surrounding regions.

An AVA more accurately describes the wine’s origin so consumers can identify the wines they want to purchase. A wine can be labeled with an AVA if at least 85% of the grapes were grown in that region.

In this guide, we will discuss the top wine countries in California, including:

For each region, we will cover where this region is located and the AVAs in these regions, how many wineries these regions include and which wines these regions are known for.

What You’ll Learn in This Guide

Along with a deep dive into each California wine region, we also cover different types of California wine from these regions that you can try at home. You’ll learn how to plan a wine-tasting party, everything you need for an at-home wine tasting and the best California wines to try.

In the North Coast wine region, you’ll find multiple AVAs, Northern California wineries and delicious North Coast wines to sample from the comfort of your home. In this chapter, we cover everything you need to know about this wine country, including where it’s located, AVAs to know, popular wineries and the top wines this region is known for.

North Coast wine country has many renowned wine regions, many of which popularized California wine. Vineyards in Northern California can be found in the following areas:
• Lake County: Named after the state’s largest inland body of water, Lake County is east of Mendocino and home to several AVAs. Popular wines from this area include Cabernet Sauvignon, Sauvignon Blanc, Chardonnay and Merlot.
• Los Carneros: Often referred to simply as Carneros, this AVA straddles the county lines of Sonoma and Napa. This growing region is ideal for Pinot Noir and Chardonnay due to its proximity to the San Pablo Bay.
• Mendocino County: In North Coast wine country, Mendocino County is the northernmost region for growing wine grapes. This area is covered in redwood forests, cool and foggy, and grows Pinot Noir, Cabernet Sauvignon and Chardonnay. This area’s diverse climate and geography can also accommodate other varietals, such as Sauvignon Blanc, Syrah, Charbono and Colombard.
• Napa Valley: Napa Valley is the most famous California wine region, though it produces a small portion of the state’s wine. Here, you’ll find numerous AVAs and wineries, along with some of the most popular vineyards. AVAs in Napa Valley include Oakville, Carneros, Mount Veeder, Howell Mountain, Rutherford, Yountville and Stags Leap District. Napa Valley wines include Cabernet Sauvignon, Merlot, Chardonnay, Pinot Noir, Sauvignon Blanc, Zinfandel, Riesling and Chenin Blanc.
• Solano County: Solano County can be found across the bay from San Francisco and is home to several wineries. The growing conditions in this area are similar to those of Napa Valley. Fog and ocean breezes cool the vineyards, extending the growing season and producing balanced wines.
• Sonoma County: Sonoma Valley wine is grown and produced in several AVAs and wineries. Sonoma County grows an abundance of Pinot Noir, Merlot, Cabernet Sauvignon and Chardonnay. AVAs include Alexander Valley, Russian River Valley, Dry Creek, Knights Valley and Chalk Hill.

How Many Wineries Are in North California Wine Country?

With one of California’s coolest climates, North Coast wine country contains many of the state’s most celebrated wineries. Some of the most popular wineries include:
• Testa Ranch: This winery in Mendocino County has been in the Testa family for generations. During harvest season, visitors can crush grapes and take part in the cellar’s barrel sampling.
• Chateau de Vie: This winery in Napa Valley includes a bed-and-breakfast where guests can stay and enjoy the heated lap pool within the vineyard and plates of complimentary cheese.
• deLorimier Winery: The vineyards in Sonoma Count include this winery that specializes in Cabernet Sauvignon.
• Swanson Vineyards: Swanson Vineyards offer an experience taken right out of a Parisian salon in the 19th century. Visitors can enjoy Swanson wines accompanied by bonbons, artisan cheeses and caviar.

Which Wine Is Northern California Known For?

Northern California wineries are known for producing a wide selection of popular wines. The types of wines that are the most popular in this region include:
• Cabernet Sauvignon: One of the most renowned red wines is Cabernet Sauvignon. In California, Cabernet Sauvignon is grown on more than 90,000 acres, with the greatest concentration of vines in Northern California. Serve this wine at room temperature and decant well before serving. Expect a strong, savory finish and bold flavors. Tasting notes include blueberries, black raspberry, cinnamon, wood smoke, clove and raisins.
• Chardonnay: In California, the most-planted varietal is Chardonnay, claiming more than 95,000 acres. Chardonnay is grown in the North Coast, Central Coast and South Central Coast regions, though it thrives in regions like Northern California, where grapes can stay on the vine longer. Chardonnay is on the sweeter side and can be found as either oaked or unoaked. Tasting notes include pear, apple, dandelion, honeycomb, celery, coconut, almond and praline.
• Pinot Noir: Pinot Noir is a silky wine and the best-selling red wine varietal across the world. This medium-bodied, polished red wine comes with jam-like flavors and a subtle aftertaste. Tasting notes include blueberry, cranberry, vanilla, jam, white chocolate and coriander.
• Merlot: A popular California red wine varietal is Merlot, grown on 44,000 acres. This bold red wine is medium-bodied, deep, dry and pleasantly acidic. The juicy fruit accents offset the dryness and brighten the Merlot. Tasting notes include dark chocolate, mocha, rosemary, cherry and bay leaf.
• Zinfandel: Zinfandels come in several shades of pink, and these grapes enjoy drier climates and hot temperatures. Higher temperatures lead grapes to produce and hold more sugar, leading to sweeter Zinfandels. Tasting notes include strawberry, fig, cherry, sorbet and marmalade.
• Sauvignon Blanc: Sauvignon Blanc is a dry, mellow wine that comprises about 15,000 acres of vineyards in California. The profile of this wine is zippy, light and herbaceous, so it’s perfect for an evening nightcap or to accompany a meal. If you want a dry white wine, grab a bottle from the Northern Coast of California. Tasting notes include pomegranate, juniper berries, fig, lemon verbena and green olive.

Enjoy North Coast Wine From the Comfort of Home

Interested in sampling North Coast wine from California? You don’t need to travel to the Golden State to get your wine bottles. You don’t even need to leave your home. Order a sampling of North Coast wine from us at Marketview Liquor.

In the Central Coast wine region of California, you’ll find several popular wine areas, Central Coast wineries and delicious types of wine that this region is known for. In this chapter, we’ll do a deep dive into this region and suggest some wines you may want to sample.

In Central Coast wine country, the weather becomes milder, which enables a great diversity of wine varietals. Here are some of the most popular wine regions within Central Coast wine country, including AVAs to know in these areas.
• Livermore Valley: Winemakers have long been growing wine grapes in Livermore Valley vineyards due to the area’s excellent wine-growing potential. Varietals like Petite Sirah, Chardonnay and Sauvignon Blanc thrive in this region.
• Monterey County: This area includes many extensive vineyards that produce a large portion of the Merlot and Chardonnay labeled “Central Coast.” Sub-regions include Chalone, Arroyo Seco and Santa Lucia Highlands.
• Paso Robles: On the West coast, Paso Robles is known for growing and producing Syrah and Cabernet Sauvignon.
• San Benito County: This intermediate climate area contains a vein of limestone soils known for Pinot Noir and the potential for elegant Cabernet Franc, Merlot, Sangiovese and Zinfandel.
• San Francisco Bay: The San Francisco Bay wine region contains fertile farmland, valleys and mountains. This area is cooled by San Francisco Bay’s famous fog and is home to several wineries.
• San Luis Obispo County: This wine region produces outstanding Pinot Noir and Chardonnay wines in the AVAs of Arroyo Grande Valley and Edna Valley.
• Santa Barbara County: Along with being a destination for several famous stars, Santa Barbara County is also a popular wine destination. With multiple AVAs, this region is perhaps best known for its Pinot Noir.
• Santa Clara Valley: As the Bay Area’s most populous county, Santa Clara boasts a Mediterranean climate and rich soils. These factors have led to the development of several wineries in this region.
• Santa Cruz Mountains: The west side of Silicon Valley contains mountains known for growing Pinot Noir. The more inland areas are known for producing Merlot, Syrah, Cabernet and Zinfandel.

How Many Wineries Are in Central Coast California?

If you’re planning a trip to California, you may want to consider visiting some Central Coast wineries. The wineries in this region offer the perfect weekend getaway. The following are some of the most popular wineries in Central Coast California:
• Bianchi Winery: This winery offers exclusive wines and accommodations in the vineyard house, all on a spacious plot of land in Paso Robles. Visitors can take part in wine tasting, tour the facility and learn about the winemaking process. Bianchi Winery is known for its advanced production and farming technologies in the winemaking process.
• Demetria Estate: Visit Demetria Estate for a welcoming, home-away-from-home feeling. You can get artistically crafted wines at this family-owned winery located on biodynamically enhanced land.
• Ancient Peaks Winery: Near the Santa Lucia Mountains, you can find the Ancient Peaks Winery. The soil here includes a fossilized seabed, and different varieties of soil are the secret to this winery’s array of grape flavors.

Which Wine Is Central Coast Known For?
• Chardonnay: One of the best Central Coast wines is Chardonnay. A Chardonnay varietal also tends to thrive on the Central Coast, and grapes can stay on the vine longer.
• Pinot Noir: Whether you want Pinot Noir with juniper and bay leaf flavors or baked berry and lavish black cherry notes, a bottle from California’s Central Coast can offer a delicious option.
• Syrah: Syrah is a red wine with a near-black, opaque pour and a notably heavy body. Anticipate tart fruit notes followed by softer, earthier flavors. This wine varietal does well in South Central California’s warmer climate. Syrah should be served at room temperature and decanted well before serving. Tasting notes include blueberry, blackberry, tree moss and cedar.
• Cabernet Sauvignon: This wine grows well in higher-altitude areas, such as the Santa Cruz Mountains. Choose a Cabernet Sauvignon to enjoy a delicious combination of fresh acidity, black fruit aromas and structural tannins.
• Zinfandel: Zinfandel does well in the Central Coast’s hotter, inland areas, such as Paso Robles and San Benito County.
• Sauvignon Blanc: This white wine produces an aromatic, dry drink with fresh acidity and a light color. Sauvignon Blanc makes up a large portion of the wine produced in California’s Central Coast.

If you’re interested in sampling Central Coast California wine, order a sampling online from us at Marketview Liquor.

The Sierra Foothills region is known for numerous wines, wineries and AVAs. This chapter covers where this wine country is located, popular wine regions and wineries worth visiting. We’ll also suggest Sierra Foothills wines you have to experience.

The Sierra Foothills is a beautiful area of California that includes famous attractions like Lake Tahoe and Yosemite National Park. In this location, vineyards serve various wines with abundant flavors. Some of the smaller AVAs within this wine country include:
• Amador County: Within the heart of Gold Country, Amador County has acres of decades-old vines. This area is known for producing several wine varietals, such as Barbera, Zinfandel, Syrah, Sangiovese and Viognier.
• Calaveras County: This county, famed as the setting in a Mark Twain story, is nestled in the Sierra Nevada Mountains. This area is known for its rich red wines like Cabernet Sauvignon, Merlot and Syrah.
• El Dorado County: You can find El Dorado County at the north end of Mother Lode, a famed gold vein that was the site of the Gold Rush. Today, the area is known for its Zinfandel vineyards.
• Placer County: Placer County is home to several wineries, as the climate, soil and topography are perfect for growing wine grapes. These grapes culminate in wine that is deep in flavor and color.
• Yuba County: Due to the granite-rich soil, grapes have been flourishing in Yuba County for decades. Yuba County is located in the north part of the Sierra Foothills.

There are many wineries in the Sierra Foothills, producing some of the most popular wines from this region. The following are some of the best wineries in the Sierra Foothills:
• Andis Wines: Andis Wines is a sleek, modern winery with a futuristic design, including a parking area with charging stations for electric vehicles. This winery stands apart due to its state-of-the-art facility designed to take a sustainable approach.
• Prospect Cellars: Taste history with your wine when you visit Prospect Cellars and its tasting room, housed in a restored post office that functions as a tasting room, an eatery and a visitor’s center. Well-known wines here include Barbera and Zinfandel.
• Iron Hub Winery: Taste award-winning wines at Iron Hub Winery and take in the awe-inspiring sights of the Sierra Nevadas. Some of the most popular wines from Iron Hub are Syrah and Sangiovese.
• Jeff Runquist Wines: This winery focuses on producing balanced wines filled with vibrant flavor. Experience these robust flavors in their wines, including Barbera, Zinfandel and Sangiovese.
• Helwig Vineyards and Winery: Participate in wine tasting and enjoy the views of the sprawling vineyards at Helwig Vineyards and Winery.

California’s Sierra Foothills wineries are known for producing a few popular wine varietals. The types of wines that are the most popular in this region include:
• Zinfandel: The warmth and high altitude of the Sierra Foothills are well-suited to the production of Zinfandel.
• Syrah: Produced from a dark-skinned red grape, Syrah is a full-bodied wine that offers strong fruit flavors.
• Sangiovese: For a wine with an aroma of red plums and cherries accompanied by earthy qualities, sample a bottle of Sangiovese.
• Viognier: Viognier is a fast-growing white wine varietal. The skin on these grapes grows thinner, which is why it is typically grown on the hillier vineyards within the North Coast region. Viogniers work well with aging techniques, and those that are less ripe will taste less sugary and greener. Tasting notes include almond, rose, hibiscus, peach and poached apple.

Even if you can’t experience the beautiful scenery of the Sierra Foothills, you can still try a glass of wine from this region. Order a sampling online from us at Marketview Liquor.

In this chapter, you’ll learn where Central Valley wine country is located, what the popular wine regions are and why tourists and residents love to visit the wineries in this region. If you want to experience wines from this region at home, look for wines from our list of recommendations.

The sunny Central Valley wine country is excellent for growing grapes. Our wine wouldn’t be the same without the California farmers in this region. The AVAs in this region include:
• Lodi and the Delta: You’ll find this area where the San Joaquin and Sacramento Valleys meet. Through Prohibition, the wine industry in Lodi continued flourishing thanks to the farmers who maintained legally sanctioned winemaking at home. Today’s wine is made from those same vines to produce some of the finest Zinfandel. The Lodi region is also well-known for its Cabernet Sauvignon, Chardonnay, Grenache and Viognier.
• Madera County: In Spanish, “madera” means “lumber,” which was the first industry in this county. Though it was gold mining that put this county on the map, the fertile farmlands here are its most precious resource today, producing tomatoes, cotton, almonds and wine grapes. This county is known for its port-style and dessert wines.
• Sacramento Valley: Nested between the Coastal Range and Sierra Nevada Mountains, Sacramento Valley is home to California’s capital and a thriving agricultural sector. Wine has played an important part in this area’s history, and with so many vineyards here, this wine valley in California still plays an important role today.
• San Joaquin Valley: Another well-known California wine valley is San Joaquin. Crops grow in abundance in San Joaquin Valley, including asparagus, cotton, almonds, oranges, pistachios, garlic, peaches, tomatoes, tangerines and wine grapes. This is the largest wine region in California. The soil of both San Joaquin Valley and Sacramento Valley is highly fertile.

How Many Wineries Are in Central Valley, California?

The soil in this wine country is some of the most fertile in the world, producing asparagus, almonds, tomatoes and, of course, Central Valley wine grapes. You can visit many wineries in the Central Valley region. Some specialize in a certain grape, and others offer a scenic view of clear, blue skies and towering trees. Here are some of the best Central Valley wineries:

Which Wine Is Central Valley Known For?

The wineries in this region produce several popular wines. Some wines you may want to sample from the Central Valley region include:
• Merlot: Merlot is a medium-bodied wine with soft tannins and berry and plum flavors, which is why it’s so popular.
• Chenin Blanc: Made from a wine grape with naturally high acidity, Chenin Blanc is a popular wine produced in this region.
• Colombard: One of the best performers from the Central Valley region is Colombard, which is renowned for its neutrality.
• Barbera: The climate in this region produces a balanced Barbera wine with cherry flavors that complement the acidity.
• Chardonnay: Another one of the top wines produced in this region is Chardonnay. The grapes typically take on the characteristics of ripe tropical fruit, resulting in Chardonnay with shades of butter and toast.
• Zinfandel: Full-bodied Zinfandels are produced from this region’s warm climate. The grapes are fat, juicy and soft on the finish, offering a blackberry flavor.
• Moscato: Moscato is a light, juicy wine often made in sparkling, pink or sweet styles with peach and pineapple flavors.
• Pinot Grigio: Pinot Grigio is light, refreshing and crisp. It often has apple and melon flavors with low acidity.

Enjoy Central Valley Wine From the Comfort of Home

Enjoy a sampling of Central Valley wine by ordering a bottle of Lodi wine or a bottle of Central Valley wine online from us at Marketview Liquor.

Napa Valley wineries produce some of the most delicious, popular wines available today. Many winemakers produce Chardonnay, Cabernet Sauvignon and Sauvignon Blanc. This California wine region yields variations that can complement numerous dishes and satisfy any palate, whether you’re looking for a fruity white or a rich red. Learn more about the wine areas in Napa Valley and the best wines to try from this region.

Napa Valley is most known for its rich, fertile soil. Napa Valley was California’s first AVA, and it includes several smaller AVAs. Here are some of the most popular wine areas in Napa Valley wine country.
• Calistoga: Depending on the time of year, the climate in the Calistoga AVA ranges from warm to hot. Summer temperatures can get quite hot during the day, but the afternoons and evenings are often cool. Soil in this region ranges from stony loam to gravelly loam to heavier clay and silt. The primary varieties from this AVA include Cabernet Sauvignon, Syrah, Petite Sirah and Zinfandel.
• Atlas Peak: The Atlas Peak AVA has a cool climate influenced by the mountains. The soil in this region is volcanic in origin and has limited water retention, which means irrigation is usually necessary. The primary varieties from this AVA include Chardonnay and Cabernet Sauvignon.
• Coombsville: The weather in the Coombsville AVA is more temperate due to the nearness of the San Pablo Bay. Heat spikes are less severe, and the region tends to be quite a bit cooler than other AVAs during the summer. This AVA is dominated by Merlot, Cabernet Sauvignon, Syrah, Chardonnay and Pinot Noir.
• Los Carneros: Due to its proximity to the Petaluma Gap and the San Pablo Bay, the Los Carneros AVA remains cool from the marine winds. Even the higher temperatures in the summer are cooler than other AVAs. This AVA produces Chardonnay, Merlot and Pinot Noir.
• Howell Mountain: The Howell Mountain AVA is located on the valley’s eastern side above the fog line, which means it’s drier and warmer than other AVAs. This AVA also has more hours of sunshine and minimal marine influence. Varieties produced here include Zinfandel, Merlot, Cabernet Sauvignon, Chardonnay and Viognier.

How Many Wineries Are in Napa Valley?

The Napa Valley region’s first pioneers planted vines in the 1840s. These vines have led to over 400 wineries that now produce multiple wine types. If you’re planning a trip to Napa Valley, you may want to visit a few of the region’s most popular, interesting wineries. Some of these wineries include:

Which Wine Is Napa Valley Known For?
• Sauvignon Blanc: One of the most popular white grape plantings in the Napa Valley region is Sauvignon Blanc. Typically, this grape offers light-bodied to medium-bodied wines with vibrant acidity.
• Cabernet Sauvignon: Another one of the key varietals in this region is Cabernet Sauvignon. As a wildly popular red wine, it’s no surprise this wine is a favorite from this region.
• Merlot: This Rhône varietal is grown across the Napa Valley region. For a soft, elegant body and a fruit-forward flavor, try a bottle of Merlot.
• Pinot Noir: Pinot Noir also flourishes in the Napa Valley area. This light red wine can be sipped on its own or with all types of food.
• Chardonnay: Like Pinot Noir, Chardonnay is popular in Napa Valley. This white wine is fruity and acidic, so it’s no wonder this crowd-pleaser is grown in the Napa Valley region.
• Zinfandel: Napa Valley’s old vines produce rich, heady wines with black pepper and spice notes. Zinfandel offers a bold, spicy flavor that makes it perfect for pairing with barbeque.
• Riesling and Chenin Blanc: These white varietals are also commonly produced in the Napa Valley region.

Skip the Flight and Order California Wine From Marketview Liquor

Want to enjoy the best wine in Napa Valley without leaving your home? Order a sampling online of Napa Valley wine from Marketview Liquor.

Now that you know more about the wines from each of the top California wine regions, you can experience these regions without leaving your home. While you can learn plenty about different wines from the internet, books and classes, one of the most effective — and fun — ways to learn more about wine is by tasting it.

Whether you want to host a wine-tasting party with friends or sample the best wine from California during a romantic, at-home date night, we have the tips you need for successful wine-tasting. In this chapter, we cover how you can plan a wine-tasting party, how to do a wine tasting at home, the best California wines to try and how you can tour the California wine region from your home.

An at-home wine-tasting party is the perfect way to elevate a Friday night. Whether you want to spend a fun evening with friends, try wines to find a new favorite or develop your palate, we have the tips you need to make your wine tasting a success, including:
• Pick a theme: One of the first tasks to check off your list is picking a theme for your wine-tasting party. Your theme will influence and guide the evening, emphasizing the flavors you and your friends will be exploring. If you want to focus on French white wines, for example, you can choose a French theme and light French cheeses. If you want to serve Californian red wines, on the other hand, you can offer complementary meats and music.
• Select a date: Suggest a few dates that work for you to your friends. Select a date that works for most of the people you want to invite.
• Keep the group small: Though you may want to invite all your friends, colleagues and acquaintances, it might be better to keep your guest list small. An intimate gathering is perfect for an at-home wine-tasting party, as it facilitates better conversations and a more engaging evening for you and your guests.
• Decide whether your party will be in-person or remote: Early in the planning process, you should determine what format you want to use for your party. Decide whether you want the party to take place in person or virtually. If many of your friends are long-distance, a virtual wine-tasting party may be the best option. On the other hand, if you prefer to meet with your friends face-to-face, an in-person party is the right option. You can also combine both formats to accommodate as many guests as possible.
• Learn how to serve wine: A serving for a tasting is 2 ounces, so a 25-ounce bottle will have 12 servings. An at-home wine-tasting party with 12 people means you’ll need a bottle for every wine you want to taste. You should know how to measure a serving properly to ensure each guest has a chance to taste a particular wine. If you want the party to keep going after the wine tasting is finished, you may also want to include some additional bottles.
• Make a checklist: Keep organized with a checklist of items to include at your wine-tasting party. You want to be prepared with everything you need to taste your wine and enjoy your evening. We include more about the items to include in this checklist below.
• Set the table: Set the table to ensure you have all the tools and necessities to make hosting your at-home wine tasting go as smoothly as possible. Use a white tablecloth to ensure your guests can clearly see the color of the wine. Ideally, every guest should have a few glasses in front of them so they can compare aromas, colors and flavors against another wine.
• Include palate cleansers: Palate cleansers are essential during a wine tasting, which you can also include when setting the table. Offer these palate cleansers between each tasting to keep your guests’ palates fresh. Water is a common, simple palate cleanser, but you can also choose snacks like plain crackers and vegetables. The key is to avoid any foods or drinks with strong flavors since this can alter the wine’s flavor.
• Ask each guest to bring a bottle: Request that your guests bring a bottle of wine to your wine-tasting party. Let them know what your theme is ahead of time so they can make an appropriate selection. You can also set a price cap so everyone is on the same page.
• Include a brief refresher on the best way to taste wine: Give guests some pointers on how to taste wine. First, note the wine’s visual qualities and then swirl the glass gently and sniff to get the aroma. Lastly, take a sip of the wine and record the flavors.
• Make notes: A key part of the wine-tasting process is assessing each wine. Make it easy for your guests to take notes on their experience with each sampling by giving each one a small pad and pen. Once the tasting is finished, guests can share their notes to determine which wines are the most and least popular and why.
• Do a blind tasting: A blind taste test is the best way to understand the similarities and differences between the wines and learn more about your palates. When your guests arrive, collect the bottles and place them in individual paper bags or wrap them in tinfoil. Each guest should receive a tasting serving of every wine in the same order.
• End with a meal: After wine tasting, your guests might be hungry. Let everyone enjoy any leftover wine and serve a small meal or appetizers to conclude your at-home wine-tasting party.

We hope these tips inspire you and help you put together an enjoyable at-home wine-tasting party. Keep in mind while brainstorming that the focus of a wine-tasting party is great wine and great friends, and as long as you have those two ingredients, the evening is sure to be fun and memorable.

Everything You Need for an At-Home Wine Tasting

As mentioned above, you should have a checklist of items to include at your wine-tasting party. For your at-home wine tasting, the following are some of the items you may want to include on your list:
• Wine: Even if your guests are bringing a bottle of wine each, you’ll want to ensure you have your own bottles to contribute, and you may want extra bottles to enjoy after the tasting is finished.
• Decanters: A decanter is used to serve the wine into an individual glass.
• Wine glasses: Wine glasses should be clear, have a stem for holding the glass and a bowl that is deep enough to allow guests to swirl the wine. You need at least one wine glass per guest. To ensure wine flavors don’t mix and impact the next sample, dump any leftover wine and rinse with water before moving on to the next wine. If you prefer that guests have a new glass for each wine and you have extra storage space, you can invest in more stemware.
• Corkscrews: Have your favorite corkscrew handy, along with a backup if you have several bottles to open or your first corkscrew breaks.
• Meat and cheese board: Small bites of meat and cheese can pair well with wine or help clear the palate. Additionally, alcohol enters your bloodstream more quickly when you drink on an empty stomach, so it can be helpful to provide your guests with food to consume during the tasting.
• Chilling buckets and ice: To keep white and sparkling wines at the perfect temperature throughout your wine-tasting party, you should also include chilling buckets and ice. Red wines can be kept in the refrigerator before the tasting and are generally best sampled at a slightly warmer temperature than white or sparkling wine.
• Tablecloth: Cover the table you’ll be using for the wine tasting with a white tablecloth. This color provides the best background for assessing the color of every wine.
• Napkins and small plates: If your guests won’t be sitting at a table, you can instead give everyone a white napkin to serve the same purpose. You should also supply small plates that guests can use to eat appetizers.
• Palate cleansers: Palate cleansers such as plain crackers and water are useful between wine samples to ensure your guests can detect the unique flavors of each wine without the influence of the previous sample.

Contact us at Marketview Liquor to get ideas for wine and food pairings or party planning.

12 Best California Wines to Try

To prepare for your at-home wine-tasting party, we have a list of the best wines to try from various regions of California. Each of these wines is available through Marketview Liquor. In addition to the region and varietal, we’ve also included the alcohol by volume (ABV) and some food pairing suggestions.

Pink Moscato is a must-have during your at-home wine-tasting party. Barefoot Bubbly Pink Moscato offers an aroma of cherries and red apples. These aromas are complemented by a lingering, luscious sweet finish.

Kendall-Jackson Vintner’s Reserve Cabernet Sauvignon comes with aromas of blackberry, deep black cherry and cassis. Round, well-defined tannins offer a strong backbone through the middle. The lingering finish is rounded out with notes of vanilla and cedar and a hint of mocha.

Four Vines Biker Zinfandel is a bold, daring California wine with a touch of roughness. Pick this wine if you want an option with layers of spice and wild berries.

With the fragrance of fresh pineapple and jasmine, the medium-bodied J Vineyards Pinot Gris brings a fresh, crisp taste to your palate. Select this wine for a pleasantly straightforward option.

Barefoot Cellars Moscato offers delicious flavors of juicy apricot and peach, along with hints of orange and lemon citrus to complement the refreshing, crisp finish.

Made from grapes from select vineyards in Northern California, the 1924 Limited Edition Bourbon Barrel Aged Double Black Cabernet Sauvignon is layered with suggestions of vanilla, blackberry and warm spice that offers notes similar to bourbon, such as charred oak, butterscotch and caramel.

Bonterra Zinfandel is a saturated, dark-colored wine with ripe fruit flavors. This dry, full-bodied wine contains notes of black cherry and chocolate braced by fine-grained tannins.

CK Mondavi Cabernet Sauvignon comes with a classic, deep red hue, along with rich flavors of blackberry and cherry. You’ll also get hints of oak and a silky finish to make this wine perfectly balanced. Grapes are harvested at their peak ripeness to create this delicious wine.

Oak Ridge OZV Old Vine Zinfandel comes with aromas of mocha latte and blueberry pie. Ultra-ripe blackberry notes are enhanced with plum liquor and white pepper flavors.

Barefoot Bubbly Moscato is deliciously sweet with tangerine and Mandarin orange flavors. This drink pairs well with sweet desserts, spicy cuisine and fresh fruit, making it the perfect addition to your wine-tasting party.

A bottle of J. Lohr Arroyo Riverstone Chardonnay comes from Monterey. This option is zesty and dry and comes with grapefruit, white peach and apricot juice flavors. Pick this bottle to add some elegance to your wine-tasting party.

Joel Gott Cabernet Sauvignon is a red that comes with a juicy finish and notes of anise, sassafras and loganberry. Pick this option for nice character and balance.

Tour the California Wine Region From Home With Marketview Liquor

In this guide, we’ve covered the California wine regions, all of which you can sample during a wine-tasting party at home. We recommend incorporating wines from every top region, from northern California to southern California. You can get wines from each of these regions through Marketview Liquor. When you order from Marketview Liquor, you can enjoy several benefits, such as:
• Large selection: We offer an extensive selection of your favorite wines, so you can discover bottles you’ll love every time.
• Free shipping for select wines: You may qualify for free shipping when you buy 12 or more bottles of select wines.
• Discount on eligible wine by the case: If you want to stock up before your wine-tasting party, you can claim a 10% discount by ordering our eligible spirits or wine by the case.
• National delivery to most states: For most states, we offer national delivery if you place an online wine order. If you live within five miles of our store in Rochester, New York, you can also get wine delivered to your door.

Whether you want to stock up or try something new, you’ll find what you’re looking for from Marketview Liquor. Order California wines from us today.Whether you’re hosting a Christmas party or want a hot beverage to indulge in while you watch the snowfall through your window, mulled wine is a delicious and festive drink to enjoy during the winter or holiday season. Conquer the cold weather by curling up on the couch with a steaming cup of this delectable treat!

If you’re not very familiar with mulled wine, not to worry — we have everything you need to know right here. In this detailed guide to mulled wines, you’ll learn a brief history of the beverage, common wines and ingredients used to make it, how to heat mulled wine and some fantastic recipes to try on your own. Let’s dive in!

“Mulling” refers to heating, sweetening and flavoring a beverage with various spices. Also called spiced wine, mulled wine is typically made by steeping red wine with mulling spices like cloves, cinnamon, anise, nutmeg or allspice. Ingredients like raisins and citrus fruits can also be added to elevate the flavor. The beverage is then served warm or hot.

Mulled wine can be traced all the way back to the 2nd century in ancient Greece. The beverage was originally developed as a way to prevent waste. Ancient Romans would mix excess spices, herbs and fruits with wine to use up these ingredients while making the drink more palatable. During the Victorian era, author Charles Dickens also mentioned mulled wine in his 1843 classic, “A Christmas Carol.”

Today, mulled wine is a staple Christmas and wintertime beverage. Most mulled wine is alcoholic, but you can also find non-alcoholic versions of the drink. And while it’s most common to mull red wine, you can use white wine if preferred.

The drink’s name can also vary depending on where you’re sipping it. For instance, it’s known as “glögg” in Sweden, “glühwein” in Germany and “vin chaud” in France. Mulled wine is commonly served at Christmas markets in Europe.

What Does Mulled Wine Taste Like?

Because spiced wine often contains similar notes to those of regular wine, it’s not too difficult to imagine the flavor if you haven’t had mulled wine before. However, the cocktail can have more defined tart, fruity, sweet or smoky notes depending on the spices you add.

For instance, you might throw in some fennel seeds for a sweet licorice flavor or a pinch of pepper for a little more kick. A few lemon slices or squeezes of lemon juice can add some extra tartness to your beverage. Whatever spices you choose, the hot temperature and added ingredients help bring out warmer, more robust flavors.

What Is the Best Wine for Mulled Wine?

If you’re wondering what wines to use to make mulled wine, below are some of the best varieties to consider.

Malbec wine typically boasts flavors of dark cherry, smoke-tinged blackberry and cocoa. It has a velvety texture, medium-to-full body and ample acidity. On top of these characteristics, its earthy undertones will blend beautifully with your mulled wine creation.

As a bonus, Malbec’s lovely dark purple hue will undoubtedly make for an aesthetically pleasing concoction. There’s also no shortage of Malbec on the market, making it easy to snag a bottle for your mulled wine.

Zinfandel wine is a plush, silky varietal bursting with ripe red berry flavors. Its hefty body can withstand the mulling spices without getting lost in the mix. Cherry and strawberry are common notes you might find with Zinfandel, which will add a lovely touch of sweetness to your mulled wine cocktail.

Merlot wine is known for its delicious notes of baking spices and fresh cherry, both of which can complement your mulling spices wonderfully. Merlot is a versatile grape used for oaky and fruity wines alike, accommodating a range of taste palates.

With a quality Merlot, you can expect a good balance of moderate acidity and tannins and relatively high alcohol content. This makes it easy to blend a Merlot wine with your favorite fruits and spices.

While you should try to avoid overly tannic and heavily bodied wines for mulled wine — so as not to diminish the flavors of your spices — Cabernet Sauvignon can be a great choice if you’d prefer a more expressive mulled wine.

Bursting with big, bold notes of dark berry, black pepper, cassis, wood and vanilla, Cabernet Sauvignon is sure to make a statement for your mulled wine.

Finally, Syrah wine is spicy and full-bodied with notes of plum, blackberry and black pepper. Like Cabernet Sauvignon, there’s no doubt that Syrah will make a bold statement for your beverage if you want something a little stronger.

Now that we’ve covered some of the best wines for mulled wine, let’s move on to the remaining ingredients.

As we discussed earlier, adding various herbs and spices to your mulled wine enhances the beverage by bringing out warmer, more nuanced flavors. While you can use any ingredients based on personal taste preferences, some common spices and herbs for mulled wine include:

Cranberries, lemons and oranges are popular picks for mulled wine, adding a citrusy and festive tang to your beverage. You can also use other winter fruits for variation, like pears, apples, mandarins, pomegranates and grapefruit.

Classic white sugar will work fine with just about any recipe, but other sweeteners like honey, maple syrup and brown sugar are popular additions to mulled wine as well.

In addition to your base wine selection, a spirit like bourbon, brandy or aged port wine adds an exciting kick to your mulled wine, keeping your holiday spirit up high.

Mulled wine doesn’t have to include garnishes, but they make your beverage all the more fun to sip! Here are some creative and delicious ways to garnish your mulled wine:
• Add an orange slice or some orange peel.
• Drop in whole spices, such as star anise.
• Drop in a few brightly colored berries, like cherries, raisins or cranberries.
• Sprinkle in a few nuts, like almonds or Brazil nuts.

Garnishes are mostly for decorative purposes, but they make for a more aesthetically pleasing beverage. If you’re throwing a holiday party, there’s a good chance this picture-perfect treat will have guests swooning and returning for another glass!

Learn how to make mulled wine with this fun list of recipes. With so many types of mulled wine to try, it can be hard to decide which one to make first!

A cozy drink that’s perfect for winter or holiday entertaining, homemade mulled wine is incredibly delicious and simple to make. This classic recipe makes it easy to customize and experiment with your favorite fruits and spices.
• 1 750-milliliter bottle dry red or white wine of your choice, such as Zinfandel, Merlot or Grenache
• 2-4 tablespoons sugar, maple syrup, honey or another sweetener to taste
• Add your wine, brandy, orange slices, spices and 2 tablespoons of sweetener to a large saucepan. Briefly stir to combine.
• Cook your ingredients over medium-high heat until it just reaches a simmer. Reduce the heat to low, cover the pan, then let the wine simmer for at least 15 minutes.
• Use a fine mesh strainer to remove and discard the cloves, orange slices, star anise and cinnamon sticks. Taste your mulled wine and stir in extra sweetener as needed.
• Pour your warm mulled wine into heatproof mugs and top with your desired garnishes.

This Appleberry mulled wine recipe is bursting with berry and cinnamon flavors — the perfect winter combo! Apple juice lends itself to frozen forest fruits for the ideal touch of sweetness and texture. Top off the presentation by garnishing your wine with a few apple slices.
• Pour your apple juice and wine into a large saucepan. Add in your cinnamon stick, star anise and sugar.
• Heat this mixture gently, stirring once or twice until the sugar has dissolved. Continue to heat gently for another 15 minutes.
• Swirl in the Cointreau or Curaçao. Add in the apple slices and frozen fruits before serving.

Swedish mulled wine, or glögg, combines red wine, dried fruits, orange zest and spices for a delightful Christmas beverage. Whether sipping it at a party or during a cozy night in, this traditional Scandinavian beverage won’t disappoint!
• 1 bottle of your choice of red wine
• Add your orange slices, wine, sugar, spices, raisins and almonds to a large saucepan. Warm the mixture gently for 10 to 15 minutes without letting it come to a boil.
• Stir in your vodka or aquavit, then serve warm.

Lighten up your warm winter beverage with this unique twist on traditional mulled wine. In addition to using white wine instead of red, this charming cocktail swaps out hearty cloves and star anise for vanilla, cider and elderflower cordial. Try this mulled white wine if you need a fun change of pace!
• 2 lemons, zested and pared into strips with a vegetable peeler
• Add all of your ingredients to a large pan. Heat until the mixture is steaming but not boiling.
• Ladle your mulled wine into glasses or mugs to serve, keeping the rest warm over low heat.

If you enjoy the warm yet bold flavors of ginger, this mulled wine is for you. This spicy mulled wine recipe combines strong ingredients like dry red wine, peppercorns, ginger and cinnamon for a robust winter beverage. Dark brown sugar adds just the right touch of sweetness with a hint of bitterness. This recipe calls for candied ginger, but you can always replace it with fresh peeled ginger if desired.
• A square of cheesecloth and some kitchen twine
• Place the cinnamon, ginger, peppercorns and star anise on the cheesecloth, then tie it into a packet with your kitchen twine.
• Add this mixture to a large saucepan with the brown sugar and wine. Bring the saucepan to a simmer on medium-low heat, then reduce the heat to low.
• Simmer while occasionally stirring for at least an hour, then serve warm.

How to Heat up Mulled Wine

As you can see from the recipes above, heating mulled wine on the stove is a common method. However, a slow cooker is another way to prepare your mulled wine. Keep in mind that this method will take a little longer — up to three hours on a low setting — but it also makes it easier to keep your wine warm throughout the evening. After you’ve completed the recipe, simply leave your slow cooker on low or warm and it’ll stay nice and toasty all night long.

If you prefer the stovetop method or don’t have a slow cooker, there are a couple of other ways to keep your mulled wine warm. You can put the pot or pan back on the stove and reheat the wine — the flavors should remain intact as long as you don’t bring the beverage to a boil. You may lose a bit of the alcohol punch, but you’ll still get all of the warm, spicy and rich flavors.

Another option is pouring your mulled wine into a large thermos to keep it warm throughout the evening. Plus, a thermos makes it easy to serve without having to go back to the kitchen.

Like most hot beverages, mulled wine is typically served in a mug. We recommend porcelain, ceramic or glass mugs since they help insulate the heat from your beverage.

There are also special glasses designed specifically for serving mulled wine. Mulled wine gasses can vary in shape, but most of them have handles for seamless holding. They also have wide brims that allow you to sip the wine easily, despite garnishes like cinnamon sticks, berries and orange slices.

What to Serve With Mulled Wine

You didn’t think we’d forget the wine and food pairings, did you? Below are some delicious dishes to pair with mulled wine.

Wine and cheese is a classic combo, and mulled wine is no exception. Spiced wine pairs wonderfully with salty and creamy cheeses like aged cheddar, bleu cheese, Roquefort, comté cheese, Wensleydale and camembert. If you need vegan options, cashew-based cheese is a great accompaniment to mulled wine as well.

Meat and wine is another beloved pairing. Tannin molecules in wine help soften the fat in meat, releasing more of its flavor. Grilled chicken, beef and glazed ham are all delicious winter meat dishes to pair with your mulled wine.

Roasted veggies like squash, tomato, eggplants, mushrooms and leafy greens are delicious alongside a glass of mulled wine. Add some meat and mashed potatoes to this ensemble and you’ve got a full holiday dinner.

Sweet, refreshing and nutritious, fruit is another tasty food pairing with mulled wine. Seasonal fruits like apples, oranges, pears and cranberries can complement the flavors of your mulled wine while ringing in the winter season.

A bowl of creamy, cheesy pasta — such as mac and cheese — with mulled wine is a culinary match made in heaven. A homey comfort dish that’s perfect for the cold weather, the chewy pasta and creamy sauce pair wonderfully with the sweet alcoholic wine.

Roasted nuts are incredible with mulled wine. Salt-roasted nuts are an excellent choice, but you can also try some other flavored nuts like honey-roasted, savory herbs and barbecue. Aside from adding a bit of crunch to your food and wine combo, roasted nuts have a salty, smoky flavor that offers more depth to the mulled wine flavors.

What’s a holiday dinner without dessert? With their rich, bittersweet flavors, tasty treats like dark chocolate and gingerbread cookies pair beautifully with mulled wine.

Does the Alcohol Cook Out of Mulled Wine?

Regardless of the variety you choose, heating wine will inevitably cause some of the alcohol to evaporate. But fret not — about 85% of your alcohol is expected to survive the heating process. That means you can heat up your festive holiday drink without worrying about significant alcohol loss. And if you’re concerned about losing too much alcohol when reheating your mulled wine, you can top off your glass with fresh wine of the same base variety.

How Long Does Mulled Wine Last?

If you prepare the mulled wine as instructed in the recipe, cool it completely to room temperature, transfer it to an airtight container and store it in the refrigerator, mulled wine will typically last about three days. If you notice your mulled wine starting to diminish in flavor, you can always break out the ingredients once again and prepare a fresh, hot batch!

Find the Perfect Base for Your Mulled Wine From Marketview Liquor

If you’re wondering where to buy mulled wine ingredients, Marketview Liquor can help you find the perfect wine base for your beverage. Whether you prefer red wine or white wine, you’re bound to find something from our extensive collection that speaks to your personal taste. Don’t forget to browse our spirit selection to add that little extra kick of brandy, bourbon or vodka to your mulled wine.

Whether you opt for a smooth and fruity Merlot or bold and complex Zinfandel, a hot cup of mulled wine made from Marketview Liquor wine is sure to bring some joy this holiday season. Find the perfect base for your mulled wine from our selection today!Whether you’re buying a bottle for a friend’s dinner party or want to unwind after a busy day at work, saving money when buying wine makes it just a little bit better. You can indulge in a delicious bottle without spending the big bucks. Many cheap wines have a flavorful profile even when they haven’t gone through a lengthy aging or storing process.

If you think you have to spend a lot of money for a good bottle of wine, that’s not the case. Here are some tips to help you save when you’re out shopping for wine. Whether you’re looking to try something new or want to discover how you can save on your current favorites, our tips can help you decide when to splurge and when to save.

Is It Bad to Buy Cheap Wine?

Cheap wine is safe to drink, but the flavor profiles may differ from those expensive bottles you see on the top shelf. However, this does not mean you can’t find a good cheap wine. Ultimately, you want to find flavor profiles you enjoy. As long as you like the drink in your glass, you don’t have to spend a paycheck to indulge. Unless you’re a collector, there’s rarely any need to reach for the most expensive bottle.

Many new wine drinkers may prefer the taste of cheaper wines because they tend to be sweeter. When winemakers cut the fermentation process short, the residual sugar from the grapes makes for a sweeter, less expensive bottle.

When it comes to sharing your bottle with family and friends, the presentation of the wine matters more than the wine itself. One study found people enjoyed their wine more when they were told it was more expensive, even if this was false.

There are quite a few reasons why some bottles of wine are expensive. If you’re looking for a distinct flavor or only drink wine from certain regions of the world, you can expect to spend more for the perfect bottle. However, if you are looking for a delicious flavor and don’t have a preference over the label or grapes, you can choose bottles in an affordable range while still enjoying every sip.
• Age: Many people believe all wine is better with age. However, this is typically the case for red wines. Most white wines have the best flavor when you drink them young.
• Storage: Oak barrels give many wines the flavor you know and love. Cheap wines may spend less time in a barrel or have skipped this process. Although you may still enjoy the flavor, these wines could be infused with wood or flavor chips, giving them a lower price tag and a different taste than the authentic oak aging process.
• Labor: As with all services, you pay for the labor when you purchase a bottle of wine. Sometimes machines pick the grapes for your bottle, working up and down the rows to get every grape they can. Other times, a person will handpick the best grapes for each bottle. The more effort goes into making a bottle, the more you can expect to pay.
• Location: Vineyards capable of producing thousands of bottles can sell wine everywhere because they have the supply. Vineyards that have a smaller output can charge more for their wine because there’s a limited number of bottles available for purchase.
• Marketing: Intricate labels stand out on shelves compared to plain-label counterparts. Although they may be more eye-catching, the brands will not affect the wine inside the bottle, so think twice before reaching for the fancy design when you’re on a budget. After all, it all looks the same in your wine glass.

How to Find Good Wine on a Budget

Finding a good cheap wine may come down to exploration. You shouldn’t be afraid to try something new. Of course, you should always enjoy the glass you indulge with because you’ll waste money on a bottle you don’t like, even if you only spent $5 on it. If you’re unsure where to start, ask your friends and family for wine profiles you should try and consider splitting a bottle before buying your own. Additionally, consider going to a wine tasting where you can try new samples and experiment with your favorite flavors or find a new one.

1. Try Something New

Ask your friends and family for their favorite flavor profiles, or ask for recommendations from those working in the shop. Describe what you enjoy about wine, and consider trying a new bottle with a lower price tag. Shopping online can help you find more options that fit your palette without limiting you to local bottles.

Additionally, consider where your wine is from. Popular wines from renowned regions are usually in popular demand, and the cost can be higher. If you love the taste of pinot noir, consider finding a bottle from Oregon rather than California. On the other hand, if you love wine from a specific country, try a different type from the same region.

Because reds have a lengthier process for aging and storing, they tend to be more expensive than white wines. You can find dry whites to sweet ones with various flavors, from fruity or citrus to floral or spicy. You can swap a red for a white in many cases and save money simultaneously.

Whether you get the fancy design and intricate label or the plain Jane cover on the bottom shelf, the paper on the bottle won’t affect how your wine tastes. Labels are a marketing tactic that winemakers use to draw your attention. However, a thoughtful design does not indicate the taste or quality of the grapes or the aging and storing process.

Present your wine to yourself and your friends as if it is the most expensive bottle you could find. Make pouring the glass a treat rather than a chore. Remind yourself that your refreshing glass is a reward. Once it’s in your glass, the rest is up to you, and the label has nothing to do with how much you can enjoy your drink.

How Do You Buy Good Wine on a Budget?

Sometimes you just want your favorite type of wine without the high price tag. When you’re craving that special bottle and rich flavor, you can save money in several ways. Watch out for the good deals and consider buying more than one bottle to save in the long run. Check out more than your local store and ask your friends for recommendations.

1. Keep an Eye on Sales

Whenever you’re browsing through aisles of wine at your state store or grocery store, you’ve probably noticed select wines are often put out at discounted prices. This is a great way to save money, but you should also be a little wary.

If the retailer has some odds and ends they’re trying to move, you can get a great deal on a nice bottle. Stores will usually place these wines in bins at the ends of aisles. Whenever you’re out shopping, check these first to see if you can get a good deal.

However, not all “sale” wines are a real bargain. Wherever your store purchased its wine has its set price, and the store is at liberty to sell what they buy for whatever amount they choose. They may put one type of wine out at a lower price than usual, but that doesn’t mean it’s always the best wine for your money.

2. Buy More Than One Bottle

You can save anywhere from 10% to 25% on wines if you’re willing to buy a case. Many retailers will give you a discount if you buy wine in bulk, which is the cheapest option over the long-term.

With some stores, you don’t even have to order the exact same wine for the entire case. Many online stores will let you mix and match, which is a great way to save money while also stocking up on a variety of your favorite types of wines.

Get your chardonnay for those lighter summer meals and some bottles of red, like pinot noir or merlot, to celebrate heavier holiday meals. Or, order your favorite wine to enjoy in front of the TV after a long day at work. You can get all your favorites and save money at the same time — it’s a win-win!

Your routine may be to grab a bottle of wine while you’re grocery shopping or stopping by the state store that’s closest to your home. Even though these places may be the most convenient, they may not have the best prices. Ask around to see if you can find better deals on the wines you love. Friends, family and coworkers may have some useful tips.

Searching online can also help you compare prices to find the best wine for the money. There’s no need to drive all over town to find the best deal on a good bottle of wine. Check out our lists of the best wines under $20 and the best wines under $30!

Shop the Best Wine on a Budget

Buying the cheapest bottle you can find isn’t the best way to find a good wine, but there are plenty of ways to save while you’re wine shopping. At Marketview Liquor, we have a broad selection of wines and other spirits you can browse. Check out our premium selection of wines today! We offer free shipping on select bottles of 12 or more and a 10% mix-and-match case discount on select bottles of wine. You can also check out our owner Mike Palmeri’s top picks for wines that represent a great value for the price!

Browse our red selections or indulge in a white collection. You can shop by the bottle or select your favorite wine regions. Explore wine from a different state or find a new favorite from a renowned country. Whatever you’re looking for, Marketview Liquor has everything you need to find your new favorite wine at an affordable price.From special occasions to everyday alfresco meals with your friends and family, prosecco wine pairs perfectly with all kinds of menu items. Sip it alone, pair it with an aperitif or combine it with other ingredients to make a delightful cocktail.

With its blend of fresh, fruity flavors and its aromatic, crisp finish, no matter how you choose to enjoy it, this versatile and popular sparkling wine is sure to be a highlight of your daily life.
• What Type of Wine is Prosecco?
• Where Does Prosecco Come From?
• What Does Prosecco Taste Like?

Prosecco is a beloved sparkling white wine produced in Italy. This sparkling wine strikes a balance of flavor and aroma, making it a delightful accompaniment for every meal — even breakfast and brunch.

With its light, fruity and fizzy taste, this wine makes the perfect accompaniment for all kinds of everyday dishes or those special occasions when you need a celebratory toast.

Whether you sip it straight or blend it with some juice to make a cocktail, this wine will delight you with its aroma and flavor.

What Type of Wine Is Prosecco?

Prosecco is a type of Italian sparkling wine that has gained popularity far beyond Europe. To create the signature sparkling taste and texture, there needs to be the right balance of both sugar and yeast.

Depending on how bubbly you like your glass of wine, there are three different styles and levels of prosecco you can choose from:
• Spumante (sparkling): This is the most bubbly style and the most popular. Perfect for those times you want to indulge in some vibrant fizziness in every sip or celebrate a milestone occasion.
• Frizzante (fizzy): This semi-sparkling level has more of a fizzy consistency. It offers the perfect balance of flavor and fizz, making it ideal for those who love the best of both worlds.
• Tranquillo (still): Even though prosecco is a sparkling wine, this level offers the least amount of bubbles. Tranquillo doesn’t follow the last step of the winemaking process, which is when the carbon dioxide is captured in the liquid during fermentation. The result is more of a traditional wine consistency.

While prosecco has gained a lot more attention and recognition in the past couple of years, this sparkling wine has actually been around for centuries. Interestingly, many historians and wine connoisseurs say the earliest known mention of “prosecco” was in a travel notebook that dates all the way back to 1593. It’s in this document that Fynes Moryson makes note of a wine named “Prosecho,” which was from northeast Italy.

To this day, northeast Italy is still the location where prosecco is produced. In fact, prosecco can’t legally be considered or labeled such unless it originates from that region. This ensures that the specific qualities and characteristics of this beloved Italian favorite are preserved.

The northeastern region has a rich history, being the site of vineyards for hundreds of years and eventually becoming the area where authentic prosecco production was officially outlined.

This region of Italy is specifically known for its prosecco grapes, which eventually became known as the Glera grape. Glera grapes make up the largest concentration in prosecco, giving it its signature flavor profile. These grapes also have an interesting history. The grapes most likely originated in Slovenia, which borders Italy, and were eventually brought over to Italy.

Where Does Prosecco Come From?

Prosecco comes from the Glera grapes. These light-colored grapes are plentiful in the hills of both Veneto and Fruili. They also grow in some of the lower-elevation areas throughout the country. Features like their high acidity and light body make them the perfect variety for creating a refreshing sparkling wine.

The region where this sparkling wine is produced offers a favorable growing environment and temperate climate. There are steep hills, and the area receives plenty of sunshine. The hillsides are also known for receiving regular amounts of rain. Originally, prosecco was produced in the Veneto region, but it’s also produced in the Friuli Venezia Giulia region now.

Glera grapes are grown on vertically trained trellises, producing long bunches and high yields. Specific practices like green harvesting ensure the grapes develop aromatically. Processo must be made from at least 85% white Glera grapes to be an authentic sparkling wine. Most of the prosecco wine you’ll find on menus, at vineyards or in the store today contain 100% Glera grapes.

Sometimes other varieties of grapes, like Chardonnay, Pinot Nero or Bianchetta Trevigiana, are blended with the Glera grapes to create more complex flavors. If other varieties are blended in, they must not make up more than 15% of the entire blend.

To achieve the signature taste and fizzy consistency, prosecco is made using the Charmat method. This method, which is also known as the ”metodo Martinotti” or “tank method,” relies on a secondary fermentation process that takes place inside a pressurized steel tank. This means that unlike other sparkling wines like Champagne, there’s no secondary fermentation taking place inside the bottle.

Interested in learning more? Here’s how the process works:
• The grapes must be first pressed to obtain the “must” liquid, which is then set aside to rest.
• The clear part is combined with selected yeasts inside decanted steel cylinders to start the process of fermentation, turning the sugar into alcohol and carbon dioxide.
• Once the must turns into the base wine, it goes into the stainless steel pressure tank to undergo its secondary fermentation.
• The pressure that’s produced when the yeast eats and ferments the sugar carbonates the wine, creating bubbles.

The amount of time it takes before it is ready to be bottled varies, ultimately affecting the final flavor and dizziness. Overall, because this method is more efficient and less labor intensive compared to Champagne production, prosecco is a much more affordable sparkling wine option.

Northeast Italy has nine different provinces that make up the growing area where the best prosecco wine is made. Depending on where the prosecco is made and what kinds of quality standards it’s required to meet, you’ll notice different labels on each bottle.

Here are the labels you may come across:
• Prosecco DOC: When you come across a bottle of prosecco, it will most likely be the Prosecco DOC quality. This is the most common quality level and can be produced in any of northeast Italy’s nine provinces.
• Prosecco Conegliano Valdobbiadene Superiore DOCG: To be considered Prosecco Conegliano Valdobbiadene Superiore DOCG quality, the wine’s grapes must be grown in a specific area located between Valdobbiadene and Conegliano. The grapes grown on these hills are known for producing concentrated wines.
• Prosecco Conegliano Valdobbiadene Superiore Rive DOCG: Within Conegliano-Valdobbiadene, there are many different vineyards or communes. For a prosecco sparkling wine to be labled Prosecco Conegliano Valdobbiadene Superiore Rive DOCG, it needs to come from one of these communes.
• Asolo Prosecco DOCG: While the Conegliano-Valdobbiadene region might be small, it’s where you will find some of the highest-quality wines. To receive the Asolo Prosecco DOCG, or sometimes Asolo Prosecco, label on the bottle, the sparkling wine needs to follow specific quality standards.
• Valdobbiadene Superiore di Cartizze DOCG: The label Valdobbiadene Superiore di Cartizze DOCG signifies some of the finest prosecco available on the market. The micro-region, which is made up of just 265 acres, is situated outside of Valdobbiadene. The combination of steep hills and more hands-on growing and picking methods ensure the highest standards are met.

What Does Prosecco Taste Like?

Prosecco is fresh and fruity, offering a lively taste perfect for sipping on at any point during the day. It brings together a medley of fruit flavors and aromas like lemon and citrus, green apple, pears, honeydew melon and quince. With all of these delicate flavors, this is a sparkling wine that’s popular with all kinds of people.

Even with all the fruit flavors, prosecco can range in how sweet it is. Most prosecco is produced and purchased in a brut style, which is dry, but even this style offers a hint of sweetness due to the sparkling wine’s fruity ingredients and the way it’s produced.

Here’s how the different styles of prosecco can vary in sweetness:
• Brut: less than 12 grams of residual sugar in each liter.
• Extra dry: ranges from 12 to 17 grams of residual sugar in each liter.
• Dry: ranges from 17 to 32 grams in each liter.
• Demi-sec: ranges from 32 to 50 grams in each liter.

Depending on the specific type, you may also detect a flowery taste and aroma with hints of honeysuckle in every sip. To enhance the primary flavors, there’s a delicate taste of honey throughout. Sometimes, you will even pick up on some cream or even tropical flavors. It all depends on the specific bottle you choose or the glass you order.

Either way, this sparkling wine offers a well-balanced taste that’s versatile and easy to drink during meals and on special occasions.

Whether you decide to sip on some straight prosecco or mix it with some fruit juice to make a delicious morning or brunch cocktail, it’s best to consume it when it’s cold — preferably no more than 45 degrees Fahrenheit. To keep it at the right temperature, you can place the bottle in the refrigerator or wine cooler for a couple of hours before you plan to drink or serve it. Another option is to place the bottle into a bucket that’s filled with ice to keep it sufficiently chilled.

Unlike the traditional wine glass, it’s best to use a transparent tulip glass for drinking prosecco. Because of the way this glass is designed, it helps enhance the flavor and aroma qualities. The tall, slender shape helps retain the bubbles and fizz, while the large bulb helps all of the floral aromas stay at the top for a pleasant sip.

Slowly pour the bottle while keeping the glass tilted at a 45-degree angle. This angle helps keep the bubbles from overflowing, preserving the beloved taste and consistency of this sparkling wine.

To Mix or Not to Mix?

Prosecco is typically enjoyed unmixed, but you are free to experiment with whatever flavor combinations you find intriguing. On its own, it offers a fruity and sweet taste. Because of this flavor profile, this crisp, bubbly wine is also often used as a palate cleanser when consuming bold, intense dishes.

You can also use this sparkling favorite to create mixed drinks like the Bellini or Spritz cocktail. Instead of using the more traditional Champagne, you can pour some prosecco into a glass of fresh orange juice to create a luxurious Mimosa. Another mixed drink it pairs well with is the Sgroppino, an Italian favorite that contains a blend of vodka and lemon sorbet. You can also create your own signature cocktail by mixing two parts fruit juice with one part prosecco.

Prosecco is often served alongside appetizers. You’ll find it’s especially delightful when served with a charcuterie board filled with cured meats, cheeses, crackers, dried fruits and thick, crusty bread.

With its versatile flavor profile, prosecco works well with all kinds of Italian dishes. From appetizers to pasta dishes, you’ll find it hard to resist this pairing whether you are cooking at home, traveling the Italian countryside or dining at a restaurant with authentic wine pairings.

Along with traditional favorites, this sparkling wine also works well with all kinds of international cuisine. The sweet flavor profile especially brings out the flavor of spicy Asian dishes. Enjoy the crisp bubbles of a chilled prosecco with Singaporean, Vietnamese or Thai dishes to enjoy an unforgettable dining experience.

Is it time for dessert? Prosecco isn’t just for savory pairings — pop open a chilled bottle and pour a glass to enjoy with treats ranging from decadent cannoli to rich cheesecake.

Craving a bottle of prosecco but not sure where to begin? Check out a few helpful tips for choosing a good bottle of prosecco wine:
• Make sure it’s authentic: To be a true prosecco wine, it needs to be produced in Italy and contain at least 85% Glera grape. Check the information on the label or retailer’s website, or ask your server for a recommendation if dining out.
• Check the DOC and DOCG: Both of these acronyms serve as a quality assurance guarantee, showing that the bottle follows specific rules for the length of time the wine was aged, the method of production and the types of grapes used.
• Decide what variety you prefer: There are different ways that prosecco can be made — the most popular being brut — and it’s just a matter of personal preference which one you think is best. Consider taking a vineyard tour or visiting a winery for a sampling event to compare your options.
• Only drink from the bottle: Today, you might come across what’s labeled as “prosecco on tap.” Even though it may seem convenient, this method of severing will diminish a lot of the signature fizz. For the most full-bodied, bubbly experience, opt for a bottle instead.

One of the most important things to keep in mind is how the storage method can impact the quality of any bottle of prosecco. If you have an unopened bottle, it’s best to store it in a cool, dark area, preferably a designated wine cellar or similar.

Unlike other types of alcohol, prosecco does go bad and doesn’t age well, so it’s best to consume it within one to two years or according to the winemaker’s recommendation. This is because it’s produced in a short amount of time compared to other beverages intended to age slowly inside the bottle, such as wine.

Once the bottle is open, you want to make sure to securely seal it when you are finished, and be sure to consume the rest of it within the next couple of days. Leaving it in the refrigerator for too long will diminish the amount of fizz and could compromise or dull its unique flavors, so the sooner you drink it, the better.

Interested in learning more about prosecco? Check out a few of our most frequently asked questions about this sparkling favorite.

It depends — prosecco can be bottled in four different ways, which range in level of dryness and sweetness:
• Brut: This is the driest level, containing the least amount of sugar and offering a robust taste.
• Extra dry: Can’t make up your mind? Reach for extra dry which offers a balance of dryness and sweetness.
• Dry: With dry, you start to notice more of a sweet taste because there can be up to a gram of sugar in each glass.
• Demi-sec: If you prefer your sparkling wines as sweet as they can be, demi-sec is the sweetest label available.

Yes, prosecco is a type of sparkling white wine. There are two main types of prosecco to be aware of — Tranquilo is a bit flatter, offering just a few or no bubbles at all, while frizzante is the most common type and a fully sparkling wine.

Is Prosecco the Same as Champagne?

While they are both sparkling white whites, prosecco and Champagne are not the same. Here are a couple of notable differences between the two:
• Where they are made: Both prosecco and Champagne must originate from specific regions to be considered authentic. Prosecco comes from regions in Northern Italy while Champagne comes from the Champagne province in France.
• How they are produced: Prosecco is produced using the Charmat method, where the secondary fermentation takes place in a steel tank. This is different than Champagne production, where the secondary fermentation process takes place in the bottle. During this traditional process, the dry wine gets poured into the bottle before the yeast and sugar are added. After sealing the bottle and undergoing a process of gradual turning, the wine achieves its sparkling finish.
• What types of grapes are used: While some other varieties of grapes are sometimes mixed in, authentic prosecco uses the Glera grape. Meanwhile, Champagne can be made using different types of grapes like Pinot Noir, Pinot Meunier and Chardonnay.

Dreaming of pouring yourself a glass of prosecco and savoring the bubbly, fruity taste in each sip? Marketview Liquor has you covered. We offer a large selection of prosecco, making it easier than ever to find the perfect bottle for any and every occasion.

Discover everything from lively blends that showcase notes of white peach, sliced almond and candied lemon zest to fresh, early blends that highlight citrus, dried grass and white flower. You’ll even find some prosecco rosé in our collection.

Browse our selection today to buy high-quality wine online by the case or bottle.If you’ve never tasted or even heard of orange wine, you’re in for a real treat. With its rich amber hue and exceptionally medium-bodied notes, orange wine is both delicious and beautifully photogenic.

You might have a few questions about this unusual wine. What gives it its extraordinary color? Is orange wine sweet or dry? What types of foods does it pair best with? In this comprehensive guide to orange wine, we’ll answer these questions and more regarding this unique beverage.

When you hear the phrase “orange wine,” a wine made from oranges or a mimosa cocktail might come to mind. However, orange wine is actually a type of white wine that uses a more unconventional fermentation method to alter the color.

While the standard for white wines is to remove the skins after pressing the grapes, orange wine is created by leaving the grape seeds and skins in contact with the juice — similar to the red winemaking process. The final product can range from a light to deep orange hue, depending on how long the juice ferments with the skins and seeds.

Though its name and tangerine hue may suggest otherwise, orange wine doesn’t come from the fruit, nor is it artificially colored. The beauty of this beverage is that it’s 100% natural.

To create an orange wine, the winemaker starts by gathering white grapes, mashing them up without removing the skins and seeds beforehand, then placing them in a large ceramic or cement vessel. The grapes are then left to ferment, developing a unique flavor and color. They can be left to sit anywhere from a week to a year.

Making orange wine is a natural process that places great emphasis on the surrounding environment. It involves little to no chemical or artificial additives. Therefore, some orange wines can have a distinctive nuttiness and sour flavor from oxidation — a complex profile that comes with many natural wines.

Where Does Orange Wine Come From?

The orange winemaking process dates back 8,000 years to the present-day country of Georgia. During this era, wines were fermented inside large clay vessels called “qvevri,” which were sealed with beeswax or clay and buried underground to keep cool.

While the process of making orange wine stems from ancient techniques, it largely resurfaced in the early 2000s when Italian winemakers — like Josko Gravner from Friuli-Venezia Giulia, Italy — visited Georgia and decided to bring this traditional winemaking practice back to his home. Though orange wines are relatively rare, many countries show a growing interest in its natural winemaking style, including:

What Does Orange Wine Taste Like?

Most orange wines carry a similar bitterness and tannic structure to red wines. Resembling a strongly brewed iced tea or fruit beer, they display bold and robust notes of peach, jackfruit, hazelnut, apple and juniper. Orange wines have a dry, sour and intense effect on the palate, so you might want to sit down and prepare yourself for that first sip.

Most orange wines are fermented to be dry, so it’s less common to find a sweet orange wine on the market. However, you might come across some off-dry, or slightly sweet, orange wines.

Since orange wine is made similarly to red wine, the two of them share multiple plant compounds and characteristics, which contribute to several potential health benefits.

Both red and orange wines have compounds such as quercetin, kaempferol, resveratrol and catechins. These contain antioxidant properties and are linked to potential health benefits like reduced risks of heart disease, inflammation and certain cancers.

That being said, consuming orange wine — or any type of wine, for that matter — shouldn’t be a fundamental method to improve health. Remember to consume it in moderation, limiting your wine intake to one or two glasses a day to prevent excessive sugar, alcohol and calorie intake.

What Does Orange Wine Go With?

When it comes to orange wine and food pairings, the key is to match the bold, robust flavors of your orange wine to an equally bold cuisine. With this in mind, orange wine tends to pair wonderfully with the following dishes:
• Spicy dishes: Orange wine has a rich tang that accompanies spicy dishes like chili and Indian curry blends, particularly those rich in turmeric, cinnamon and cardamom.
• Meat: Orange wine’s full, robust nature allows you to pair it with heavier meat dishes — like beef, lamb and pork — that would normally overpower a white wine.
• Vegetables: Orange wine is a fantastic complement to vegetal flavors. It goes especially well with roasted or grilled bitter veggies like artichokes, asparagus, kale, Brussels sprouts, broccoli and cabbage.
• Aged hard cheeses: With its tannic structures and full-bodied flavors, orange wine is incredible with salty, aged hard cheeses that would typically clash with white wines. Think pecorino Romano, gouda, feta and kashkaval.

Just like red, white and rosé wines, there are multiple varieties to consider when choosing an orange wine. If you need ideas, below are some of the best orange wines to try:
• Orange Pinot Grigio: This popular pick is worth a try if you’re looking to experience the unique flavor of orange wine. Orange Pinot Grigio boasts notes of citrus, stone fruit and honeysuckle.
• Orange Sauvignon Blanc: With its floral aromas of saffron, apricot and orange peel, orange Sauvignon Blanc is another type to look out for. Like with most orange wines, many tasters find that this variety is best when dry.
• Orange Riesling: This wine is known for its complex sour flavors, which often come with the oxidation of natural wines. Orange Riesling is a rather acquired taste. Some enjoy its tart, beer-like flavor profile, while others find it a little off-putting. Give it a try to make the judgment for yourself!
• Orange Muscat: Orange Muscat wine gives off powerful aromas of apricot, orange blossom, spicy fruit and pear.

After learning all about this wine’s fascinating taste profile, color and winemaking process, you might be wondering where to buy orange wine to experience these flavors for yourself. If you’re looking for the best orange wine brands, look no further than the selection at Marketview Liquor.

Whether you need something bold enough to withstand flavorful food pairings or want to explore beyond typical reds and whites, we have an orange wine with your name on it. Boasting exotic notes of honey, pear, tropical fruits and other unique aromas, orange wine offers a tasting experience like no other. Browse our orange wine selection and order yours today!What better way to celebrate the warm summer season than sipping a wine cocktail by the pool? Better yet, gather your friends and family to join in the festivities! Host an unforgettable pool party by mixing up some delicious summer cocktails for your guests. With many different wine flavors and varieties to consider, there are endless opportunities to create refreshing mixed drinks.

Cocktails that incorporate light and fruity flavors are especially ideal for summertime, which is why we’ve crafted a list of berry and citrus-inspired mixers. Read on for the best summertime wines and cocktail recipes to set your pool party over the top!

Best Wines for the Summertime

Before we dive into our list of mixed drinks, consider specific wine varieties you’d like to use. Each kind offers crisp, refreshing flavors and aromas to capture the essence of summer. Let’s look at some main wine classifications and their popular summertime varieties.

A delicious white wine offers sweet and refreshing notes for summertime. With many white varieties to choose from, you’re sure to find the perfect one to mix up some tasty cocktails. We especially recommend finding one with fruity notes to accompany the warm season. Here are some excellent white wine varieties to enjoy during summer:

With their delicate berry and citrus aromas, it’s no wonder rosé wines are a summertime delight. Consider finding a variety based on your favorite fruits or on the cocktail you plan to make. Below are some of the top rosé wines to sip poolside this summer:

You can never go wrong with a rich red wine for summertime. A light-bodied red is especially ideal for summer since it can be chilled slightly. However, full-bodied reds can still be drinkable in summertime despite being best served at room temperature. Here are some light and refreshing red wine varieties:

Beat the summer heat with a chilled glass of sparkling wine. The cold beverage temperature paired with refreshing bubbles makes it ideal for a summertime cocktail. Its light and fruity notes make it all the more delicious. Consider one of these popular sparkling wine varieties for your mixed drink:

Need ideas for refreshing summer cocktails to wow your pool party guests? Whether you’re looking to serve white, red, rosé or sparkling wine cocktails at your upcoming gathering, we’ve included a recipe for each type. Browse the cocktail recipes below to see if any of them strike your fancy!

Nothing says summer quite like sangria made with chilled wine and fresh seasonal fruits. Putting a twist on a traditional red wine-based sangria, this recipe uses white wine for a lighter and even more refreshing beverage to enjoy by the pool. A splash of lemonade adds an unexpected tang to this sweet summery treat.
• Squeeze the juices from your orange, lemon and lime wedges into the wine.
• Add your citrus fruit wedges to the pitcher, omitting the seeds if possible.
• Add in your peach slices, lemonade, strawberries, sugar, pineapple and brandy.
• Refrigerate the pitcher overnight to let the flavors settle.
• Add ice and ginger ale to the pitcher right before serving.

Make your pool party one to remember by serving up some charming strawberry mojitos for your guests. With a dreamy blend of cool mint, smooth rosé wine, fresh strawberries and tangy lime, this drink is bursting with summer flavors. While you can mix in any rosé variety you please, we especially recommend a sparkling rosé for an ultra-refreshing sip.
• Divide your strawberries and mint leaves among two highball glasses, then muddle them gently.
• Pour your rum, simple syrup, wine and lime juice into both glasses, then stir gently.
• Garnish your mojitos with fresh lime wedges, strawberries and additional mint leaves.

Bask by the pool with a refreshing red wine spritzer in hand. With fresh berries, crisp seltzer and your choice of red wine, this drink is the true epitome of summertime. This beverage fruity and delicious, and it’s also quick and easy to make. Consider mixing up these red wine cocktails for your next pool party.
• Divide your raspberries and blackberries among six large wine glasses.
• Pour your wine over the berries, then let the glasses sit for about 10 minutes.
• Top each glass with seltzer just before serving.

Bursting with rich, sweet and juicy flavors, it’s no surprise that watermelon is a beloved summertime fruit. When you pair it with some sparkling wine, it’s all the more refreshing. Quench your thirst on a hot day by mixing up some delicious watermelon champagne cocktails for your pool party.
• Blend your watermelon cubes on high until the mixture is smooth.
• Use a sieve to strain the mixture into a large container, then refrigerate for half an hour.
• Add the lime juice, vodka and triple sec to your chilled watermelon juice, then stir well.
• Divide this mixture among four champagne flutes right before serving, leaving some room at the top.
• Top each glass with champagne and enjoy!

Stock up on Summer Wines From Marketview Liquor

We hope these summer wine ideas have inspired some creative mixers for your next pool party. For crisp and refreshing wines to craft your cocktails, browse our selection at Marketview Liquor. No matter the variety, flavors or sweetness level you’re looking for, our wines are ideal to enjoy during summer or any other season of the year.

To ensure you have plenty of wine for your summertime gathering, consider ordering by the case to receive a 10% discount on select labels. With our rich reds, elegant whites and sparkling champagnes, you’ll surely find a wine for everyone to enjoy.

Experience rich, authentic flavors from around the world when you shop with Marketview Liquor. Browse our selection of wines and order yours today!With a unique variety of parks, museums, restaurants, wineries and other attractions in Upstate New York, it’s no wonder this region brings visitors back time and again. Many people visit the state for its one-of-a-kind food and drink creations that stem from local eateries and ethnic roots.

If you’re looking for the best food in Upstate New York, you’ve come to the right place! We’ll discuss what gives New York cuisine its authentic taste, explore some popular Upstate New York foods and drinks, then provide some tips for seeking out these tasty dishes in the area.

What Makes New York Cuisine So Unique?

To understand what gives Upstate New York foods their delicious and authentic flavors, you can trace them back to their diverse roots.

New York cuisine is composed of many foods inspired by ethnic groups that entered the U.S. through New York City. New York represents nearly all ethnic cuisines, both inside and outside of the state’s ethnic neighborhoods. Here are two examples of cuisines brought to New York.

Much of New York’s cuisine stems from its community of Ashkenazi Jews and their descendants, such as the following:

New York’s large Italian-American community has also inspired many popular New York cuisines. Here are some examples:

Must-Try Food and Drink Specialties of Upstate New York

If you decide to visit the area, we highly recommend trying some popular Upstate New York food specialties. We’ve listed a few of these dishes and beverages below.

You can get buffalo wings from restaurants and bars all over the U.S. — but if you want authentic ones, head to Buffalo, New York. Teressa Bellissimo, the former co-owner of Anchor Bar in Buffalo, invented these wings in 1964 when she cooked chicken wings in peppery hot sauce as a snack for her son. If you live here or visit the area, check out the best wings in Buffalo from some of the top eateries!

Also originating from Buffalo, beef on weck is a classic New York sandwich made from only three ingredients — a kimmelweck roll dotted with coarse salt and caraway seeds, roast beef and grated horseradish. It’s a simple yet timeless meal. While you could make this yourself, consider stopping by one of Buffalo’s sandwich shops or specialty restaurants for the real deal.

Trust us when we say this dish is far more appetizing than it sounds. The garbage plate originated from the Nick Tahou Hots restaurant in Rochester. It’s a platter of fried potatoes, macaroni salad or baked beans and a type of meat — this could be a hot dog, fried fish, chili or a hamburger. Come hungry because it may take hours to finish this massive plate of food.

Hot dogs have always been a fan favorite in New York, thus inspiring the Michigan — a steamed hot dog loaded with meat sauce, mustard and fresh onions, all packed into a New England bun. Despite its name, Michigans are an Upstate New York staple. They’re commonly found in Albany and Buffalo restaurants, so try one for yourself if you visit one of these cities!

Like Michigans, the Boston Shake is a delicious Upstate New York creation despite its name. A milkshake topped with a hot fudge sundae, this dessert is an absolute dream for ice cream lovers. Order one from the dessert menu when you visit a New York restaurant so you can understand the hype.

Introduced by Harry B. Hemstrought in 1920, these tasty treats have spread from Upstate New York to all over the country. These soft, fluffy cookies are half-covered with white frosting. They have chocolate frosting on the other half to create the appearance of a half-moon, hence the name. You can get fresh half-moon cookies from Hemstrought’s Bakery in Utica.

Most commonly served in Utica restaurants, tomato pie is probably unlike any other pizza you’ve tasted. It has a chewy, thick crust and tomato sauce on top of cheese, which is why it’s sometimes called “cheese on bottom” pizza. This classic dish captures the essence of authentic Italian-American cuisine.

If you’re from the Buffalo area, you may have cracked open a crisp Loganberry at some point. This tasty alcoholic beverage is inspired by the loganberry, which is a blackberry and raspberry hybrid. With a refreshing blend of sweet fruity notes and a rich tart flavor, it’s no surprise that Loganberry beverages are a favorite in Upstate New York.

Tips for Eating Your Way Through New York

Keep these tips in mind when seeking out the popular Upstate New York foods and beverages listed above:
• Plan ahead: It’s important to come prepared. Research some restaurants in the area so you know the best places to pick up these cuisines.
• Use search tools and apps: These help narrow down your search results so you can find which restaurants have the specific foods you’re looking for.
• Try local spots: Small, local restaurants in Upstate New York will likely have the most authentic and delicious cuisines. Most of these dishes originated from local spots, like the garbage plate and half-moon cookies. Additionally, talking to residents can help you gather good restaurant recommendations.
• Create a map or list: Write down a list of places to hit and the dishes you’d like to try from them. If you don’t know the area very well, you may want to map out these locations so you don’t have trouble finding them.
• Keep an open mind and schedule: Trying out unique foods requires keeping an open mind. While a specific dish might seem foreign to you at first, you may find it’s the best thing you’ve ever tasted! Additionally, remember to carve out ample time in your schedule to try out these new foods and restaurants.
• Make reservations: If the restaurant is generally busy or you’re visiting on the weekend, you may want to make a reservation. This way, you won’t have a long waiting time before trying a delicious New York cuisine.

After reading about these popular cuisines, you may be craving an authentic New York dish or beverage. At Marketview Liquor, we obtain unique wines and spirits from New York and other worldwide regions to ensure rich, natural flavors. Whatever variety you’re looking for, you’re sure to find a favorite from our quality selection.

Discover authentic notes and flavors with Marketview Liquor. Browse our New York wines and spirits online today!Planning a wedding can be fun, exciting, time-consuming and nerve-wracking all at the same time. With various factors to consider, it can be easy to overlook crucial things on the wedding checklist.

While choosing alcohol to serve for the reception or cocktail hour is an important part of planning, sometimes it gets pushed to the bottom of the list. However, your alcohol selections are important and should be a high priority. Selecting the perfect wines can help set the overall tone and mood for your special day, and certain varieties tend to pair nicely with different foods and seasons.

Whether you’re having a smaller ceremony or a lavish extravaganza, buying wine for a wedding can be overwhelming. Thankfully, there are many ways to approach drink planning that can help you purchase the ideal varieties and amounts. Accounting for factors such as your venue, type of bar service, liquor laws, guest count, budget and menu can help you figure out the alcohol specifics for your special day.

To get a better idea of how much alcohol to purchase as well as what types, keep reading this complete wedding wine buying guide for plenty of useful tips and information!

So, How Much Wine Do You Really Need for a Wedding?

When planning a wedding, it’s important to accommodate your expected number of guests in every way possible, whether it’s ordering plenty of food for everyone, ensuring the venue has ample seating or making lodging arrangements for out-of-towners. Another important factor to consider is supplying enough alcohol for those who wish to drink, as well as making sure your budget can fully cover this expense.

So, how much wine should you buy for a wedding? Ultimately, the amount of wine — and all alcoholic beverages for that matter — you purchase should be determined by your expected guest count. A general ratio for serving alcohol at a wedding reception is one-third wine, one-third beer and one-third liquor.

So, for a reception with roughly 100 guests, you should likely plan for around 30-40 glasses of wine each hour. Because one bottle of wine serves about four glasses, you’ll likely need about 8-10 bottles per hour.

If you need further assistance in determining how much wine you’ll need for your wedding, you can even use a wedding drink calculator to help provide you with an accurate estimate.

What Types of Wine Should You Include in Your Wedding Drink List?

When serving wine at your wedding reception, it’s important to include a variety of options to accommodate the tastes and preferences of multiple guests. If you’re not quite sure how to approach your wine order, consider the general classifications of wine — red, white, sparkling and rosé. These basic wine categories are comprised of different profiles and grape varieties. Let’s look at some examples below:

Here are some popular types of red wine you may consider serving at your wedding reception:

Next, here are some white wine varieties commonly served at wedding receptions:

Here are some popular types of rosé wines for weddings:

Finally, here are some common types of sparkling wines you might consider serving at your wedding:

What Alcohol Should I Supply for My Wedding?

While there are multiple categories and varieties of wine to choose from, this doesn’t mean you’re required to supply a massive selection of each type at your wedding. You can simply use these classifications to help you decide which kinds of wine you’d like to serve at your reception. Sampling a variety of wines before your big day is also a good way to determine which types you’d like to serve as well as which ones will pair nicely with the foods on your menu.

There’s no right or wrong answer when choosing which types of wine you should supply at your wedding. Try picking one or two variations from each general category — this way, you can accommodate the different taste preferences of your guests. You might consider serving red and white wines at the bar while saving a sparkling wine, such as champagne, for the wedding toast.

How Much Champagne Should Be Bought for a Toast?

Purchasing champagne or another sparkling wine for a wedding toast is slightly different than buying regular drinking alcohol for the bar. Though the toast is a special part of your wedding day, most of your guests likely won’t drink more than half a glass — therefore, you won’t need to buy as much champagne as you would other spirits.

You’ll likely only have to purchase enough champagne or bubbly to fill about a half or third of each glass. A helpful ratio to follow is one bottle of champagne for every 10 guests.

As another option, you can use the following champagne bottle calculation formula to help you determine an accurate estimate:
• [Number of legal drinkers] / 6 servings per bottle = the total number of bottles to order

How the Time of Year Can Affect Your Wine and Champagne Choices

While it may seem unrelated, the particular season and month of the year can help you determine which types of wine and champagne to include at your wedding. In this section, we’ll look at some helpful seasonal wine pairing tips that might help influence your wedding alcohol choices.

With vivid blooms appearing, birds chirping and temperatures starting to warm up, a spring wedding ceremony can be an absolute dream. Ring in this new season by selecting some light, pleasant wines to pair wonderfully with your special day. Here are some delicious wines you might consider that are ideal for the springtime season:
• Pinot Noir: With its smooth finish and hints of cherry, clove and raspberry, Pinot Noir can be an elegant wine option for spring.
• Spanish Rosado: While Spanish Rosados have a light and springy taste, they also add notes of pepper to the mix for a more enhancing flavor.
• Sauvignon Blanc: Sauvignon Blanc is an excellent wine option to ring in the crisp spring season, especially for those who favor dry wines.
• Grüner Veltliner: A lean wine that also offers hints of pepper, Grüner Veltliner pairs wonderfully with spring wedding dishes.

It’s no surprise that summer is a wildly popular time for couples to get married. With warm temperatures, sunshine and more hours of daylight, a summer wedding is a perfect opportunity to have an outdoor ceremony, reception or cocktail hour. If you and your fiance are planning a wedding during this season, you might consider selecting light, refreshing wines and champagnes to complement a cheerful, warm or outdoor vibe.

Here are some lovely wines to enjoy at a summertime wedding:
• Rieslings: With high acidity and the ideal amount of residual sugar to provide a cool, crisp taste, German Riesling is a refreshing beverage for the hot summer season.
• Pinot Grigio: Pinot Grigio is an excellent wine option for this season, as it offers a medium-body yet acidic balance for a perfect summer beverage.
• Viognier: Viognier creates the perfect blend of medium-light taste and lively fruit flavors for a delicious summer wine.

Fall is an ideal season to have a wedding — it provides stunning colorful backdrops for professional photos as well as crisp and pleasant temperatures. If you’re planning to get married during the fall season, we’ve got some tasty seasonal wine recommendations in store for you. These selections are rich in flavor — perfect to celebrate both autumn and your wedding day.

Here are some pleasant autumn wines you might consider:
• Merlot: With the perfect concoction of cherry, tannins and warm flavors to accompany the autumn season, Merlot is always a classic fall wedding option.
• Grenache: Grenaches offer hints of dried strawberries, clove, raspberry and herbs to capture the essence of autumn.
• Sémillon: A full-bodied white French Sémillon for your wedding offers a lush, elegant taste to ring in the fall season.

Planning a winter wedding? Consider these flavorful wine choices to pair beautifully with a charming snow-covered backdrop and chilly temperatures. Because winter foods tend to be heavier and heartier — such as meats and soups — it’s important to select more rich, full-bodied wines to accompany your menu.

Here are some recommended wedding wines for the winter season:
• Chardonnay: With a buttery and rich flavor, Chardonnay is a perfect wintertime wedding option. It offers hints of caramel and vanilla that pair wonderfully with the cold season, complementing a variety of winter dishes as well. Consider pairing it with creamy pasta, corn chowder or baked fish.
• Cabernet Sauvignon: Cabernet Sauvignon offers dark fruity flavors, rich tannins and hints of cinnamon that pair wonderfully with the snowy season. Enjoy it with winter dishes such as portobello mushrooms, soups or ribs.
• Shiraz: This smooth, bold and seasonal wine features dark fruity flavors and notes of black olive that pair perfectly with a winter wedding reception. Shiraz especially complements dishes that incorporate barbecue flavors, sauteed mushrooms and herb-roasted potatoes.

Saving Money on Your Wine and Champagne Choices

When planning a wedding, it’s always a good idea to use your budget wisely. Here are five helpful money-saving techniques when purchasing and supplying alcohol for your big day:

When choosing wines to serve at your wedding reception or cocktail hour, try not to overthink or complicate the process. Simply picking one red, one white and one sparkling wine will more than likely suffice. As long as you have at least some variety, your guests are bound to enjoy whichever wines you select. Remember that they’re there to celebrate you on your big day — not fuss over the wine choices. Keep it simple and try not to sweat it!

You won’t want to risk running out of alcohol before the night is over. A good way to prevent this from happening is by making sure wine is properly distributed by the waitstaff and bartenders — in other words, keeping heavy pours to a minimum. Heavy pours may be acceptable at bars, but it’s important to be more fruitful with wine during weddings.

To ensure a pour that’s substantial without going overboard, it’s recommended that guests are poured about three ounces of wine at a time. This also allows the wine in their glasses to stay cool consistently. Additionally, you can request that the servers only refill guests’ glasses if they’re asked to do so.

When browsing wine for your wedding, it’s advisable to buy this in bulk. This option can be significantly cheaper than purchasing by the bottle. When you purchase by the case, you can save anywhere from 10 to 25% on wine. Many merchants will offer discounts for cases, which can increase when you buy several at a time.

4. See if You Can Return Unopened Bottles

Many stores will allow you to return any unopened bottles of wine, beer or other liquor after your wedding. Before purchasing alcohol from a store, check to see if their policy will permit alcohol returns in case you end up with leftovers.

When purchasing wedding wine, it’s recommended that you buy bigger bottles. You can find high-quality, inexpensive wines in larger bottles that hold twice the amount of regular-sized ones — this way, you can save money and get more bang for your buck.

How Much Should I Budget for Alcohol at My Wedding?

You can serve excellent wines at your wedding without having to spend a fortune. Typically, wine and champagne will account for about 15% of your overall reception budget. If your caterer will be providing the wine, this will likely be included in the bar bill — you can expect to pay about twice the retail price on every bottle of wine that’s served.

Is It Cheaper to Provide Your Own Alcohol for a Wedding?

When buying wine and champagne for your wedding, you normally have two main options — purchasing your own cases or ordering your alcohol through your caterer or venue.

It’s typically more affordable to provide your own alcohol for a couple of reasons. You can receive store discounts when buying your own in bulk, and caterers tend to mark up their prices — you’ll more than likely pay double the retail price for a bottle of wine through your caterer.

If your catering service charges a corkage fee to bring your own wine, compare their wine prices to that of your own plus this fee. If you find a good deal from a retailer, supplying your own could still be the cheaper option despite this additional charge. Depending on the caterer, you may even be able to negotiate a lower corkage fee.

Additionally, you aren’t limited to the caterer’s alcohol choices when supplying your own. You have full control over varieties and brands, which gives you more freedom when selecting alcohol for your wedding.

However, certain caterers and venues may not allow you to purchase and supply your own alcohol. Before your wedding, check with both your caterer and venue to make sure their policies will permit you to do so.

Here are some other factors that can play into purchasing and supplying alcohol for your wedding reception:

Consider the type of bar service when planning alcohol for your wedding. Many couples choose to have an open bar that allows guests unlimited access to wine, beer and liquor. Since this can be pricey when supplying your own alcohol, other couples choose to have a limited bar selection instead.

A cash bar is another type of wedding bar service. However, this requires guests to purchase their own drinks, which isn’t considered the most polite or ideal option. It’s perfectly fine if you can’t afford full bar service — you can opt for a limited selection instead.

As mentioned earlier, you’ll likely only need small amounts of champagne, bubbly or sparkling wine for the toast — this is where purchasing single-serve wine bottles can come in handy. While buying reds and whites for the bar in bulk can be a good money saver, purchasing bubbly by the bottle can help ensure you don’t have excessive leftover bottles after the wedding. This is ideal if you’re planning to have a smaller ceremony.

If you and your partner decide to supply your own liquor for the bar, you’ll likely need to factor in mixers such as sodas, juices and flavorings if you plan to offer cocktail options. Additionally, you might consider garnishes such as olives, lemons, cherries, cucumbers or mint. Make sure there’s plenty of ice for the bar as well.

Alcohol storage temperature is a critical factor to consider in advance when making wine arrangements for your wedding. Generally speaking, all of your wines should be kept cold, especially if you’re having a summer wedding. Whites, sparkling wines and even reds should be served on ice to stay chilled throughout the reception. This way, the alcohol maintains a pleasant and refreshing taste for you and your guests. Even chilling them in the refrigerator for half an hour before the reception can make a notable difference.

However, winter wines — excluding champagne — can be served at room temperature to help bring out the distinctive flavors and aromas of the wine. This is also more acceptable when outdoor temperatures are colder. Ultimately, you should determine alcohol serving temperatures based on the specific wine and season. Your caterer, bartender or waitstaff will likely have more expertise on this matter and can properly serve alcohol to maintain ideal taste and temperature.

Your menu can help you determine specific wines and champagne to purchase for your wedding, as some varieties pair nicely with certain foods over others. Here are some helpful wine and food pairing tips:
• Chicken: You may want to opt for a medium to light-bodied red or white wine — heavier wines can overpower the soft flavor of chicken. Chardonnay and Sauvignon Blanc are good white options, while Pinot Noir or Zinfandel are good reds.
• Beef: Try a medium-to-bold red wine that complements rich beef flavors, such as a strong Merlot, Cabernet Sauvignon, red Bordeaux or Zinfandel.
• Fish: Lighter whites and Greek wines tend to pair nicely with seafood — you might consider a Sauvingon Blanc or Pinot Grigio. Sparkling wines such as Cava and Prosecco can also complement fish.
• Vegetables: Dry, light whites or reds can accompany roasted vegetables. Consider serving a Pinot Noir, Grenache or similar wine.
• Pork: A bolder white selection, such as white Burgundy, rounds out pork wonderfully.

It’s important to research local and state liquor regulations when making alcohol arrangements. Liquor laws can vary by state — certain locations may prohibit BYOB policies, while others may allow it given the venue has a proper liquor license.

You may also want to look into liability insurance options for your wedding to protect yourself and your guests. In fact, certain vendors may require this if you’re supplying your own alcohol.

For quality, affordable wine to purchase for your wedding, Marketview Liquor is your solution. With a variety of reds, whites, rosés and sparkling wines available in multiple brands, you’ll surely find the perfect wines to accompany your special day. You can also order by the case to receive a 10% discount on select labels.

If you need further assistance in planning alcohol and liquor for your big day, we also offer wedding and event planning services! Let us provide you with professional resources to help you plan your ideal wines and spirits.

Visit our site to order your wedding wine online today!While humans have enjoyed wine for thousands of years, the varieties we know and love today are far different from those of the past. Wine has evolved and improved over time with new growing techniques, and we now have access to wine from all over the globe. With more options at your fingertips, knowing how to taste wine notes is essential for finding a variety you enjoy.

What Are Tasting Notes in Wine?

Wine tasting notes can describe a smell, taste or both. For example, a wine with notes of green apple combines a sharp, acidic taste with a light fruit scent.

Our taste buds can detect slight differences between salty, sour, sweet or umami flavors, playing an essential role in the wine tasting process. The nose fills in the rest of the picture to provide the full flavor.

Wine tasting will always be subjective because taste and smell largely depend on the individual. The language used to describe wine tasting notes also depends on the individual, and you may identify with one set of notes over another. While the exact notes of a given wine may vary slightly between people, wine tasting notes help to assess overall taste and quality.

You can go into a wine tasting blind, meaning you don’t know any information about the wine, or with a few details. The goal of either type of taste test is to examine the wine’s appearance, flavors, aroma and texture. Proper wine tasting involves the following steps:
• Use a wine glass large enough to swirl 1.5 ounces of the variety you wish to taste.
• Take short breaths, inhaling through your nose and exhaling through your mouth, to capture the aroma.
• Pay attention to your taste buds on the first sip of wine.
• Write down your initial reaction and what you can taste and smell for reference for future tastings.

Understanding some of the basic terms to describe elements of wine will help you evaluate the quality of the bottle in front of you. The main aspects of a wine you may consider during tasting include:

What Notes Are in White Wine?

When creating white wine, winemakers separate the grapes from their skin before fermenting the beverage in stainless steel or wooden barrels. Countless varieties of grapes can impact the flavor and aroma of white wine. For instance, when trying a dry white wine, you may experience notes like these:

On the other hand, a sweet white wine may offer different tasting notes:

What Notes Are in Red Wine?

To make red wine, wineries press dark-skinned grapes and let them ferment with the skins. This fermentation process adds color, flavor and tannin, or naturally occurring compounds that create a drying sensation. As the yeast converts grape sugar into ethanol and carbon dioxide, it creates alcohol.

The aging process and type of grapes used in red wine production can impact the flavor and aroma. For example, in a light red wine, you may experience notes such as:

While a full-bodied red may give notes that are:

The best part about wine tasting is that there’s a variety for just about everyone. Our inventory includes a full range of wines available for direct shipping to your home, so mix and match a case today to taste your new favorite.Its hazy appearance and unfiltered sediments may mislead or off-put shoppers at first, but the natural wine movement continues to influence winemaking processes and reach new customers every year.

Whether you’re passionate about wine or consume it casually here and there, you may have heard about natural wines. The term has been floating around the wine world for decades. And while it is a growing sector with lots of interest from consumers, there is still a lot of confusion and questions surrounding it.

Learn more about natural wine and the unique characteristics that set it apart from traditional options with this guide.

Natural wine does not have an official definition. It is not a category with specific standards, nor does the FDA have rules or regulations for how to label it.

So, what makes it a natural wine? Natural wine refers to a winemaking philosophy that involves minimal intervention. The approach can be summed up by the principle that nothing is added or taken away.

Winemakers produce natural wines with either organic or biodynamically grown grapes. The grapes ferment with wild yeasts, and makers purposefully add little to no additives or preservatives. Grapes are usually grown in small batches by independent producers and carefully handled to avoid chemicals and additives, such as:

Complex machinery is also not used in natural winemaking processes. The grapes for these wines are hand-picked without mechanical grape harvesting.

What Is the Difference Between Natural Wine and Regular Wine?

The primary difference between natural and regular wine is how the winemakers produce the wine. Conventional winemaking involves heavy intervention from the beginning to the end of the process.

Traditional winemakers use machine pickers to harvest grapes, while natural wine utilizes hand-picking. The grapes in regular wine are grown with pesticides and herbicides to protect and enhance their growth. In the United States, winemakers have different approved additives they are not required to share on a wine bottle’s label. These additives help control:

Natural wines shy away from additives, including preservatives that keep the wine fresh for longer once it’s bottled. The added sulfites that help preserve the freshness of regular wine often receive the blame for headaches and hangover symptoms for wine drinkers. During the fermentation process, makers use lab-grown yeast to boost the conversion of sugar into alcohol and carbon dioxide, while natural wines only use wild or native yeast. And unlike natural wines, regular wines are filtered before bottling.

When Did Natural Wine Become Popular?

The use of chemicals in agriculture became popular after World War II. Vineyards started using pesticides and herbicides to protect their grapes. The natural wine movement began in rural France in the 1950s when a few local winemakers began returning to processes with little or no intervention.

The movement spread beyond France in the early 2000s when vintners and winemakers in these countries began implementing hands-off production:

Soon wine importers began setting their sights on natural options. Bars and restaurants started adding them to their menus. By the mid-2000s, distribution was still advancing, partially thanks to growing organic farming trends.

Vineyards and wineries all over the globe have continued innovating winemaking techniques and refining practices. The demand for natural wines is still present today as more environmentally conscious consumers look for cleaner, purer food and drink options.

Are Natural Wines Better for You?

It is a widely held belief that natural wines are a healthier option than traditional alternatives. But, what is the natural wine difference? Thanks to little intervention, the integrity and purity of the ingredients used in natural winemaking can offer more health benefits.

Natural winemaking does not filter before bottling. This helps maintain the gut-healthy bacteria and antioxidants in the wine that come about during fermentation. Regular winemaking filters sediment and bacteria, leaving behind little benefits for your gut.

You can typically enjoy less sugar and fewer carbs when you drink natural wines. It is also often noted that natural wines are better for reducing the symptoms of a hangover. And while hangovers are a result of how a person’s liver breaks down alcohol in the body, natural wines are more easily flushed out of the system, thanks to lower levels of acetaldehyde in the blood compared to that of people who drink regular wines.

Almost all wine contains sulfites. Traditional winemakers add more to the wine to preserve its flavor and freshness. Natural winemakers do not add any additional sulfites, which can have adverse effects on wine drinkers like headaches and even allergic reactions.

Plus, the natural winemaking process is better for the environment. With far fewer pesticides and limited use of machinery, organic farming practices are more sustainable. When vineyards use a regenerative agriculture approach, they waste less water and can maintain healthier soil.

What Is Natural Wine vs. Organic Wine?

Natural wine is sometimes confused with organic wine, but the two are not the same.

Natural wine refers to a minimal interference winemaking philosophy with no added chemicals and additives. Both organic wine and natural options use organically grown grapes, but the key difference is that organic wines are not chemical-free. Instead, winemakers can use organic chemicals and treatments in their agricultural efforts.

Grapes used in natural winemaking cannot have any chemicals, regardless of whether or not they are organic. If vintners and winemakers want to label a wine product as organic, they must meet certain standards set forth by the United States Department of Agriculture’s National Organic Program. Wines with organic certification cannot include the following in the winemaking process:

Natural wine does not have any official category requirements, and there is no certifying body responsible for labeling these products. Natural wine is always organic, but organic wine is not always natural.

Does Natural Wine Have an Official Certification?

While organic and biodynamic wines have certifications that they share on each label, natural wines do not. There is no governing body or set of standards that certify if a bottle of wine is natural.

Natural wines must use organically grown grapes and involve a hands-off winemaking process, but there is no certifying organization to affirm that winemakers meet these standards.

What Does Natural Wine Taste Like?

When it comes to taste, natural wines have unique qualities and notes. Natural options typically have some of the following taste characteristics:
• Funk: Natural wine generally has an acidity that offers a savory or funky flavor thanks to little to no filtration before bottling.
• Light: Many natural options are light-bodied with lower alcohol contents.
• Terroir: The taste of natural wine often reflects the location and growing conditions more so than regular wines.

How Do You Identify a Natural Wine?

Shopping for natural wine can be tricky. There are no official labels or categories to base your buying decision on, so you’ve got to learn how to identify natural wines in different ways.

To help make it simple for you, here are three tips for recognizing natural wines:

1. Familiarize Yourself With Natural Distributors and Importers

Wine consumers enjoy bottles imported from all over the world. It is law in the United States to note the importer on the back label of wine. Familiarizing yourself with wine distributors and importers can then help make the search for natural options much easier.

If you don’t know anything about the importer on a bottle of wine, a quick Google search of the producer can be helpful. There are databases and website directories dedicated to wine producers you can use to figure out if a brand uses natural winemaking processes.

A local online search can make it especially easy to identify natural wines available near you. A few different methods could help you find your next bottle. First, you can look up local wine distributors near you and find both retailers and restaurants with natural options. You could also download a handy app like Raisin that allows users to find natural wine and food options in their area.

A local search can streamline your efforts to find natural wines in your area, but it may not help you identify a bottle if you are shopping or dining in person.

Natural wines are available in a wide range of varieties. The following are four of the most common types of wine and some of the natural wine brands that fit into each category:

Winemakers use black grapes that are fermented with grape skins to get those deep burgundy colors for red wines. Red wine is typically higher in tannins, causing it to make your mouth feel dry as you sip. The flavors of red wine can vary greatly from fruity to earthy. Pacific Redwood is a brand with organic and natural red wine options.

White wines use both white and black grapes without the grape skins for the winemaking process. Because the skins are left out, the grape juice is clear and light in color. This type of natural wine has very few tannins and is acidic, which results in crisp, tart flavors. If you’re looking for a bottle of natural white wine, Bonterra has excellent options.

There are also natural orange wines, a type of white wine created by fermenting the grape juice with skins and seeds to get the orange color. Anne Pichon produces natural orange wines that have dry, citrusy notes.

Rosé is famous for its light pink color. To achieve this shade of blush, winemakers use the juice from black grapes fermented with the skins for a short amount of time. Natural rosé is low in tannins but sometimes dry. Its sweet, light flavor makes it a crowd favorite. Domaine Lafage produces natural rosé wines that are light and fruity.

Pétillant naturel, often shortened to pét-nat, refers to sparkling wines that get their fizziness by being bottled while actively undergoing the first round of fermentation. Other bubbly options use sugars and yeast in the fermentation process, which natural winemaking does not. This category can encompass nearly any variety of wines. For example, Johan Vineyards has a sparkling rosé wine.

When serving natural wines, you can follow the temperature rules of traditional wines. Many natural options can benefit from a little chill, but before serving, be sure to let your bottle warm up for about 30 minutes once you take it out of the refrigerator.

Natural wine is also not much different than traditional wine when it comes to food pairings. There are a few basic rules for matching up the right meal with the right wine, such as:
• White wines pair best with light meats like fish and chicken.
• Acidity should be greater in the wine than the food.
• Wine should be sweeter than the food.
• The food and wine should have the same intensity.

In addition to these general rules, focusing on flavor combinations can help make food and natural wine pairing simple. The primary flavors include:

Congruent pairings mean the food and wine have shared flavors, and enjoying them together amplifies that taste. An example may include creamy pasta and white wine. Contrasting pairings strike a balance between different flavors that complement each other, such as salty potato chips and tart champagne.

Consider the following tips for how to store natural wine:
• Find the proper temperature: The best temperature to store wine depends on its variety, but natural options can benefit from a good chill. It is beneficial to store natural wine at 58 degrees Fahrenheit or slightly above.
• Keep bottles in low humidity: Humidity is an important factor when storing wine. If it is too dry, corks can dry out. And if it is too humid, mold can form. Ideal wine storage has between 50% and 80% humidity.
• Store bottles horizontally: You should always store corked wine bottles horizontally to keep the cork moist. When the cork dries out and shrinks, it can compromise the wine inside the bottle.
• Use a wine fridge: Regular refrigerators are too cold for most wines. Using a wine fridge allows you to set the perfect temperature, so your bottles are ready for consumption whenever you are.
• Keep wine in the dark: Light can cause wines to age faster. UV rays from the sun can actually damage a wine’s flavors and ruin the bottle.
• Store away from vibrations: A surprising tip for storing wine is keeping bottles away from vibration sources like washing machines or stereo systems. Exposure to vibration can dull flavors over time, as the sediment in natural options will mix into the wine.

There is a common myth that natural wines do not age well, but a bottle’s longevity depends on its variety and the techniques used in the winemaking process.

There are a few key reasons why most natural wines are best if consumed within a few years. Natural wines are often made in small batches to ensure quality and because of limited storage resources. Without added preservatives, some natural wine varieties are not intended for long-term storage. Despite this, some natural wine options can age well.

There are a few places to buy natural wine these days, including:
• Online: Buying natural wine online is especially easy. In fact, we suggest looking online before doing any in-person shopping. You will be able to order new bottles on the web or perform a quick search to find local establishments that sell natural options.
• Restaurants and bars: Look for natural wines on the menus of local restaurants and bars. You can also call ahead and ask about their available options before visiting.
• Bottle shops: Wine retailers are likely to have some natural options on their shelves. Check inventories online or call ahead to see what natural wines are in stock.
• Organic grocery stores: Health food retailers and organic grocery shops that sell alcohol are likely to have natural wine in the store.

Questions to Ask When Shopping for Natural Wine

The next time you’re shopping for wine, it can be beneficial to know what questions to ask a wine professional to boost your chances of getting a bottle that you love. Use these questions to narrow down your choices:
• What pairs well with…? If you know what meal or snacks you’ll be having, asking a wine professional about food pairings can help you find a bottle that is complementary to what you’re eating.
• What wine should I choose if I like…? Don’t be afraid to share your favorite flavors and fruits when shopping for natural wine. These could help you find new bottles that you are almost guaranteed to enjoy.
• What natural wine do you recommend?: Asking for a suggestion is a great way to get a firsthand account of what the wine tastes like and how to serve it.

The following are some tips that can help you choose the best natural wine for you:

Reflect on the Flavors You Like

When looking for the right bottle of natural wine, consider the fruits and flavors you know you enjoy. Your taste preferences are a great way to begin your hunt for a new option. Think about both wines you love drinking and flavor experiences you appreciate.

Sharing your budget is a great way to narrow down your choices quickly. There are good quality wines for every price range, and letting a wine professional know how much you’re looking to spend on a bottle will help narrow down your options.

Natural wines are known for being cloudy and having some sediment. This is because natural winemaking processes do not use filtration. The sooner you learn to appreciate the haze, the better off your natural wine shopping will be.

Before looking for a new bottle of natural wine, consider what you plan to eat with it. Research food and wine pairings and look for an option that makes sense with the meal you plan on enjoying.

One of the best ways to better understand wine is to learn about the many grape varieties used in winemaking. Some popular varieties include:

As you become familiar with grape varieties, you will start to get a sense of what wines you enjoy best.

Natural wines are an important and developing category that shows no signs of going away any time soon. Today, you can place an order on our site and have it shipped directly to your door, making buying natural wine easier and more convenient than ever.

Marketview Liquor offers a variety of natural and organic wine options. Whether you are interested in shopping by the case or a single bottle, we make it simple for you.

Are you interested in learning more about Marketview Liquor’s wine selection? Browse our catalog of wines today!Cooking with wine for the first time can be overwhelming. As a beginner, you may find it difficult to determine what type of wine you should cook with, where you should purchase it and what dishes it would taste best with. Additionally, you may not have extensive knowledge of different wines and grape varieties.

Fortunately, you don’t have to be a wine expert or a master chef to cook delicious meals with wine. In this complete guide to choosing cooking wines, we’ll go over some basics of cooking wine, tips for picking a good bottle, how to match wines with different foods and the best places to buy cooking wines.

Cooking with wine can complement and enhance different flavors of foods. Many people like to cook with wine to add more acidity to their dishes, which helps round out accompanying flavors. Because wine contains alcohol, it’s important to add it to your dish near the beginning of the process and let it cook along with your food. This gives the alcohol a chance to burn off as the dish cooks.

You can select a specific cooking wine depending on your preferred variety and the other ingredients in your dish. Cooking wines come in many different styles such as the following:
• Dry red wines: Dry red wines are less sweet, so they won’t burn as easily. This makes them ideal for slow-sauce making.
• Dry white wines: A dry white wine that’s high in acidity is excellent for cooking. Try using a crisp Pinot Gris, Pinot Grigio, Sauvignon Blanc, Pinot Blanc or dry sparkling wine.
• Dry and sweet oxidized wines: An oxidized wine has been exposed to oxygen during the winemaking process. Oxidized wine has a unique taste that rounds out other flavors of a dish, and both dry and sweet varieties can be great for cooking.
• Sweet fortified red wines: Fortified wines and spirits pair nicely with various recipes, especially French dishes and elegant desserts. They can be used to make wine-based sauces for meats as well. Their unique and complex flavors make them excellent wine choices for cooking.
• Sweet white wines: Lightly-sweet whites such as German Riesling are bursting with delicious fruit flavors, making them well-suited for vanilla and fruit-based desserts. Because these wines tend to be sensitive to air and light, try to use the bottle soon after opening it.
• Rice wines: While most wines are created from fermented grapes, rice wine is made by fermenting rice. Rice wine adds excellent flavor to Chinese- and Japanese-inspired dishes. It’s commonly used in marinades to tenderize seafood and meat.

While you can technically cook with any wine, it’s important to note that certain types may not complement some dishes as well as they do others. This largely depends on factors including the sweetness level, acidity, tannins, body and alcohol content of the wine.

When deciding how to choose a wine to cook with, a general rule is that dry reds and whites pair nicely with savory dishes while sweet wines such as Moscato, Sauternes or sweet Riesling are typically recommended for dessert recipes. Later on, we’ll go more into detail regarding different cooking wines and foods they tend to pair well with.

What exactly differentiates a cooking wine from a “regular” wine? Generally, regular drinking wines such as dry reds and whites add a more flavorful and stronger taste to your dishes. They often have higher quality than generic cooking wines. Cooking wines can help add desired flavors but are essentially made for cooking and are not meant to be consumed on their own.

While grabbing a bottle labeled “cooking wine” from a store shelf seems like the simplest option, this isn’t the ideal choice if you want to cook an impressive dish. Cooking wines tend to offer a salty and unpleasant taste, and they can often resemble vinegar more than wine. You’re more likely to find cooking wines in the vinegar section of a grocery store than you are in the wine section.

To cook delicious and flavorful meals, choose an authentic drinking wine made from fresh and natural ingredients. We also suggest shopping at a liquor store that specializes in wines, beers and other spirits, as they’ll have a more experienced staff who can help you find a good wine for your dish.

Before you can determine effective cooking wine and food pairings, it’s important to understand what gives these wines their distinctive tastes, as well as why they complement some foods more than others. When choosing wine for cooking, here are some basic characteristics to keep in mind:
• Sweetness: A wine’s sweetness can significantly affect how your dish will taste. While sweet wine can be added to certain desserts, it doesn’t tend to suit most savory recipes. Try to opt for a dry white or red wine when cooking a savory dish. Generally speaking, it’s also better to avoid cooking with oaky wines as these may cause your food to taste bitter.
• Acidity: Acidity refers to the tartness of a wine. You’ll likely want to cook with a wine relatively acidic, as this can bring more flavor to a dish while enhancing accompanying flavors.
• Tannins: Tannins are naturally-occurring compounds found in grape skins that help produce wines, particularly reds. Tannins are what create that dry and slightly bitter taste in your mouth when sipping wine. When making desserts and sweeter dishes, try using a soft Pinot Noir to avoid tannins. However, it’s typically safer to cook savory meats with red wine, as proteins in meat can help break down tannins.
• Body: The body of a wine refers to how light or heavy it feels in your mouth. Keep in mind that big, full-bodied reds such as Shiraz, Zinfandel and Syrah can bring out tannin flavors that may turn chalky when cooked. If you’d prefer to avoid this taste, you might consider a Pinot Noir, Cabernet Sauvignon or Merlot that offers more moderate tannins.
• Alcohol: It’s typically best to choose a wine with a mid-range alcohol content of 10% to 13% when cooking. Wines with a higher alcohol content typically have less acidity, which can take longer to tenderize meats. However, fortified wines can also be great cooking choices despite having a higher alcohol content of 20%. They can help bring out more complex flavors of meats, poultry and shellfish. Remember that the longer you cook the wine, the less alcohol will be present in the dish.

Now that we’ve covered the basic identifying factors of wine, it’s important to know the best practices when shopping for your cooking wines. When browsing wine products from a store, you’ll want to look for a few specific things that can help you make effective purchasing decisions. It’s important that you don’t gloss over the labels — reading the bottle carefully for important details can go a long way.

To pick a cooking wine, keep these seven important tips in mind:

Pay careful attention to the instructions of the recipe so you know what type of wine should be used. The recipe will often provide wine recommendations that complement the dish. If not, you can determine the right wine to use based on other ingredients. For example, a crisp, dry white wine such as Sauvignon Blanc or Pinot Grigio pairs nicely with the ingredients used to make shrimp scampi.

In addition to using wine for sweet and savory food recipes, you can also use it to make delicious and refreshing cocktails. Try searching for some fun and creative wine cocktail recipes to make in addition to your dishes — this is another way to put your wine to excellent use!

Reading the wine bottle label is especially important for checking the alcohol content, as some white cooking wines have lower alcohol content than others. Additionally, if a label describes the wine as “fruity,” this doesn’t necessarily mean it has high sugar content — this simply refers to its concentrated fruit flavor.

The more details this label has, the more reliable the brand likely is. Reading the label can help you make a more informed decision when selecting a bottle of wine. In addition to the name of the winery, you can also find a brief description of the wine that includes the specific grape variety, the year these grapes were harvested, the region they were grown in, the alcohol by volume (ABV) and tasting notes.

Additionally, knowing the different characteristics of various wine types can help you better understand the descriptions written on wine labels.

As a general rule of thumb, you should try to cook with wines you enjoy drinking. If you don’t like how it tastes when sipping it, chances are you won’t like the flavor it adds to your food either. Choose your cooking wine carefully and pick something you know you’ll love.

When deciding how to choose cooking wines, think of different aromas or flavors you tend to like. If the flavors in the description sound appealing to you, you’ll likely enjoy the taste. Whether you enjoy subtle notes of berries, citrus, hibiscus, mocha or chocolate, you’re sure to find a wine you’ll love to drink and cook with.

It’s a good idea to sample a few different wines before picking one to add to your dish. This can help you determine which one will best compliment your dish and give you a better idea of what the food will taste like.

Additionally, it’s helpful to keep track of the different wines you try. While one variety may not mix well with a dish you’re currently cooking, you may be able to use it for a future dish. Make notes of the wines you taste as you go along and write down ideas for dishes you can cook with these different wines.

As mentioned previously, a cooking wine’s alcohol content can heavily influence the taste of your food. When choosing a wine for cooking, try picking one with a mid-range level of alcohol — this can help provide the ideal amount of acidity to effectively bring out delicious flavors. However, sweet fortified wines with higher alcohol content can also be great for preparing savory sauces for seafood and sweet sauces for fruity desserts.

6. Consider if You’ll be Drinking Wine With Your Meal

If you plan to have a glass of wine alongside your meal, keep in mind that specific wines tend to pair better with certain foods than others. For example, white wines such as Chardonnay and Sauvignon Blanc tend to complement the softer flavors of chicken and turkey. On the other hand, bold red wines tend to pair nicely with heavier meats like steak and beef. Try pairing these dishes with a rich Zinfandel, Pinot Noir or Cabernet Sauvignon.

When selecting and purchasing your cooking wines, try not to let price intimidate you. You don’t have to choose the most expensive option in the store — you can easily find quality cooking wines at affordable prices. Additionally, buying these by the case can help you save money, as many retailers offer bulk discounted prices. Buying multiple bottles is a cost-effective option, and you’ll have extra bottles for future recipes!

After learning some important tips regarding how to pick a good cooking wine, you may want to start thinking of effective wine and food pairings to spark some imagination for your next meal. Let’s look at some different types of wine and foods they tend to cook well with:
• Dry red wines: If you’re planning to cook with a drier red, these wines tend to pair wonderfully with bourguignonne sauce, beurre rouge and red wine reduction sauce for meats and vegetables. A Zinfandel or Shiraz is great for braising lamb, beef roast, ribs or other red meats — these bold wines are excellent complements to heartier dishes. When cooking beef stew, try using a Merlot, Pinot Noir or Cabernet Sauvignon.
• Dry white wines: Dry white wines are great for preparing lighter dishes such as vegetables, pork, poultry and seafood. They can also be used for soups, cream sauces and to deglaze your pan. Try out a crisp Sauvignon Blanc, Pinot Grigio or Chardonnay for one of these light and delicious meals!
• Sweet fortified red wines: Sweet fortified red wines are excellent for sweeter dishes such as chocolate cakes, chocolate sauces and port wine sauces for steak. For one of these dishes or a similar dish, try cooking with a Ruby Port or Vintage Port, or drizzle one of these wines over some fresh strawberries. Additionally, try flavoring a berry glaze or caramel sauce with a sweet Madeira or Marsala.
• Sweet white wines: With their high acidity and delicate flavors, sweet white wines can accompany both sweet desserts and savory fish recipes. They’re great for poaching pears and creating sweet sauces for fruit tarts, and they can also be used to create buttery sauces for fish, shrimp and lobster. Try using an elegant Sauternes, sweet Riesling, Moscato or Gewürztraminer.

Where Can You Buy Cooking Wines?

Earlier, we briefly discussed the importance of shopping for cooking wines at a reliable liquor store or wine retailer. These stores specialize in a wide variety of wines, beers and spirits, and their experienced staff members can easily help you pick out your ideal products. These individuals don’t have to be cooking experts to help you find the right wines to pair with your foods.

Some liquor stores will offer online wine buying options in addition to in-store shopping. Browsing wines online allows you to read complete descriptions and information about every product in a single interface. Online shopping also offers the convenience of having your wines delivered right to your doorstep.

Here are the main reasons to consider buying your wines online or in-person from a liquor store rather than a superstore:
• Larger product selection: Because liquor stores specialize exclusively in alcohol products, you’ll likely find a larger and more diverse selection of wines, beers and other spirits than you would in a grocery store or supermarket. This gives you more options to choose from, and you’ll be more likely to find the particular product you’re looking for.
• Higher quality spirits: Smaller wine brands and companies typically don’t use mass production facilities to make their wines. Many of these products are created from more complex and personalized fermentation processes and use fresh, natural ingredients to produce delicious flavors. You likely won’t find these unique tastes and aromas in mass-produced wines from larger corporations.
• More convenience: Buying from an in-person or online liquor store tends to offer more convenience than shopping at a giant superstore. With in-person shopping, checkout lines tend to be shorter in smaller stores. When shopping from a liquor store online, you’re free to buy wines at any time — online shops are open 24 hours a day, which makes purchasing excellent wines simple and convenient. While many superstores offer online buying options as well, you likely won’t be able to find wines of such high quality.
• More personalized shopping experience: Smaller liquor stores tend to offer a more personalized shopping experience for their customers. You won’t find this kind of attention with larger stores. The skilled staff members and wine experts at liquor stores can help you find the right products, offer professional wine recommendations and answer any questions you may have.
• More budget-friendly: While big grocery stores and superstores often mark up their products, smaller liquor stores typically offer discounted prices, especially when you purchase alcohol by the case. Bulk purchasing makes buying from liquor stores a more cost-effective and budget-friendly option.

If you’re looking to buy your wines from a liquor store that embodies the above qualities, look no further than Marketview Liquor. We believe that you should never have to spend a lot to purchase high-quality wine and spirits. For this reason, we offer an extensive selection of fine wines with several online purchasing benefits and promotions.

You can receive the following perks when you buy from our favorite selections and varieties:
• Free shipping when you buy six or more bottles of select wines
• Case discounts of 10% for eligible wines and spirits
• Hundreds of 90-point wines for under $15

Browse and Order Your Cooking Wines Online at Marketview Liquor

You don’t have to spend a fortune on wines to cook delicious and impressive meals. At Marketview Liquor, we offer a quality selection of reds, whites, rosés, champagnes and other wines at affordable prices — consider purchasing one of our wines for your next tasty recipe!

No matter your preferred sweetness level, flavors and notes, we provide exceptional wines to satisfy any unique taste. Browse and order your wines online at Marketview Liquor today!If you’ve ever had COVID-19, you may have experienced a dulled sense of taste or a distorted sense of smell that continued even after your recovery. While this is an inconvenience for any individual, it presents a considerable risk to those who depend on taste and smell to perform their jobs.

Tasting and smelling wine are essential factors of being a sommelier. Since the 2020 pandemic, various sommeliers and wine industry workers have experienced challenges tasting and smelling wine. They experienced stress and uncertainty as to whether they’d be able to continue their jobs.

This article will explain what sommeliers do, why smelling wine is such a significant part of their jobs, how the pandemic has affected multiple wine workers and what you can do to help retrain your senses upon recovery from the virus. Additionally, we’ll discuss what the post-pandemic future could look like for these sommeliers.

A sommelier is a trained professional with extensive knowledge about different wines and grape varieties. They’re well-informed about the origins and characteristics of wines, proper wine storage practices and how to pair wines with different foods.

Sommeliers also have vast customer service experience. They typically work in hospitality settings, specifically in fine dining establishments. These might include luxury restaurants and hotels, country clubs, cruise ships and casinos. Sommeliers can work in retail settings as well.

Becoming a certified sommelier typically requires some level of formal education, thorough training and previous experience — not to mention a deep passion, drive and appreciation for wine. Depending on a person’s existing wine knowledge and skills, it can take several months of studying and rigorous training to develop an advanced palate and earn a sommelier certification.

You may have heard the term “connoisseur” at some point. A connoisseur is an individual with extensive knowledge about a particular subject, such as food, music or art. One can also be a connoisseur when it comes to wine.

What exactly differentiates a sommelier from a wine connoisseur? A sommelier works as a wine steward in a hotel, restaurant or similar setting. They help manage the wine cellar, serve wines to customers and offer drink recommendations. To become a sommelier, this individual obtains certification through rigorous training and practice.

A wine connoisseur is well-versed and knowledgeable about different wines and grape varieties. Their opinions are highly respected and valued by others. However, they do not obtain the same certification that sommeliers must have, and their level of knowledge isn’t quite as advanced.

Wine workers typically smell wines before tasting them. This is a vital step of the sommelier wine tasting process because it helps identify and reveal the distinctive aromas of the wine. Because our senses of taste and smell are closely connected, these aromas can help the sommelier sense how the wine will taste. We force air through our nasal passages as we chew, so the sensation of flavor is a concoction of taste and smell.

By smelling a wine before sipping it, you’re preparing your brain for what you’re about to taste, making it an important part of the process. However, the pandemic has greatly affected the ability of many sommeliers to smell and taste wines. In the following few sections, we’ll explore this subject more in detail.

How the Pandemic Has Affected Wine Experts

Smelling and tasting wines to test their flavors and quality is critical to the wine industry’s success. You can imagine the loss of these senses due to COVID-19 took a large toll on wine experts and their livelihoods. The pandemic presented a significant challenge for sommeliers, winemakers and winery owners all over the world. In this section, we’ll look at a few supporting examples.

Master wine-taster Sophie Pallas lost her taste and smell after testing positive for COVID-19. She reported it was difficult for her to detect the notes of fresh citrus and exotic fruits of a Pyrenean white wine, which she was able to identify before contracting the virus. Being deprived of these senses sent her into a panic, and she had to retrain both her palate and ability to smell.

In an effort to retrain her nose, Pallas explained that she would deeply inhale different spices, vanilla pods and coffee beans. Today, she can easily identify dominant wine aromas and flavors but still struggles with subtle and complex notes.

Dan Davis serves as wine program head at the New Orleans restaurant Commander’s Palace. After losing his sense of smell from COVID-19, the uncertainty of whether he would be able to continue his line of work terrified him. He would crush garlic into a bowl, try smelling ammonia and test various scents around the house but had no luck.

While Davis believed that his sense of smell had fully returned after his recovery, he also reported that a diner would occasionally send a bottle of wine back to him. Upon assessing the bottle, he’d find nothing wrong with it, making him skeptical of his tasting and smelling abilities.

Philippe Faure-Brac is one of the best-known sommeliers in France. Losing his sense of smell from COVID-19 heavily impacted his ability to perceive different flavors. He opened a bottle of red Châteauneuf-du-Pape to celebrate his recovery but realized the wine had no unique aroma or taste. He could only detect the alcohol, acidity and tannins, which he reported as tasting “hard and metallic.”

When his taste did start to return, he described it as violent. Wines with only a light amount of wood strangely had an overpowering woody taste. He found himself unable to drink wines that he once enjoyed — all of them were dominated by an unappealing bitterness.

Talitha Whidbee is the owner of Vine Wine Shop in Brooklyn. Her first indicator of COVID-19 was feeling sick and tired while eating dinner out with friends. She ordered some grower champagne and Chinon wine but claimed that both were disappointing. Whidbee reported foods tasted like Play-Doh. She found herself unimpressed by what should have been wonderful wines.

After recovering from severe symptoms, she still found that her taste and smell were rather dysfunctional. She described pizza as tasting like cardboard. Filling her home with diffusers and other strong scents wouldn’t restore her sense of smell.

Wesley Brown works as a server at Arden Wine Bar in Portland. Brown experienced severe symptoms in addition to his loss of smell and taste. Though he has mostly regained these senses, he claims that flavors still seem dialed down and that they taste “a little less vibrant” and intense than before. He noticed that sweet tastes, in particular, were blander.

Jamie Goode is a British author, wine expert and founder of the WineAnorak blog. He caught the virus at the beginning of March 2020 and reported some strange experiences with wine afterward. While he didn’t entirely lose his sense of smell from COVID-19, he explained it was very distorted. Wines tasted “stony” and “slightly oxidized,” and fruit flavors were no longer present.

Can You Train Your Senses to Smell Again After COVID?

After reading these examples of sommeliers, tasters and experts who’ve all struggled with taste and smell due to COVID-19, you may be wondering if it’s possible to retrain these senses and fully regain the ability to taste and smell.

A British study suggests that there may be a form of special training to help people regain their sense of smell — specifically for those experiencing parosmia. This condition causes odors to smell strange and distorted.

This training process involves smelling at least four different aromas twice a day for several months. The goal of this practice is to help the brain reorganize itself through neuroplasticity to detect different smells again.

Each study participant was given different smell training kits consisting of various odors, such as the following:

The study showed that older people were more likely to recover their sense of smell through this training. Additionally, the largest improvements were seen in those who had lost the most smell function from COVID-19. Consistent smell training helped spark regeneration in their nasal pathways.

Though this study was actually carried out before the pandemic even started, researchers believe their findings could help those who lost their senses from the virus.

If you’re still experiencing warped tasting or smelling abilities after recovering from COVID-19, here are some steps you can take on your own to help regain your senses:
• Choose and line up four essential oils.
• Take gentle whiffs of each scent for 25 seconds. While you’re smelling each one, imagine what it looks and feels like. Think of a memory that involves this particular scent.
• Practice this exercise twice a day — morning and night — for about three months. If your senses still haven’t fully returned after this time, find four new oils and try repeating the exercise.

How Long Does It Take to Regain Your Sense of Smell and Taste After COVID?

Though it can take varying amounts of time to regain these abilities, most people get their sense of smell back within six months. Some may continue to experience distorted smelling abilities while others’ senses fully return to normal — this tends to be a different experience for everyone. Let’s look at some examples of how long it’s taken some sommeliers and other wine industry workers to regain their sense of smell and taste:
• Charles Philipponnat, a champagne-maker from France, took six months to regain these abilities.
• It took sommelier Faure-Brac five months to smell and taste accurately again, though he is still somewhat sensitive to resin and wood flavors.
• Lisa Denning, a wine writer at Grape Collective, took about three weeks to gain most of her taste and smell back.
• Kelsey Glasser, a sommelier and bar owner from Portland, took two weeks to fully regain her taste and smell.
• Sommelier Dan Davis completely recovered his sense of taste and smell three months after contracting the virus.

Thankfully, things are looking up for sommeliers as the wine industry begins to bounce back. Because COVID-19 restrictions have started to ease up all over the world, many wineries and restaurants have started to allow tastings again, even if appointment bookings are required.

Though foot traffic in these businesses may have decreased, Oregon’s wine board president explained that customers are purchasing more wine at tastings than ever before. He believes this is largely due to more personalized visitor experiences with smaller crowds.

Despite the chaos of the pandemic, Oregon has also experienced some other victories in the wine industry — three of the state’s white wines made the Wine Enthusiasts’ top 100 list in 2020. Additionally, the number of wineries in Oregon showed a 10% increase, bringing this total to nearly a thousand wineries across the state. And while the state’s wine industry experienced multiple setbacks from the pandemic, some grape growers reported 2021 as the best vintage in 25 years.

Will sommeliers be able to continue their line of work even if their abilities to taste and smell haven’t been fully restored? Even if sommeliers can not yet smell or taste wine properly, there may be alternative solutions that would allow them to continue working in the wine and hospitality industry.

Sommeliers’ skills are versatile and easily transferrable, opening them up to a variety of other career options. They could reasonably become restaurant managers and still help manage the wine list.

Additionally, the pandemic has shown a rapid increase in digital marketing and workplace technology for businesses all over the world. For the wine industry, these improvements include updated e-commerce bar websites and more online masterclasses. This opens up another opportunity for sommeliers — they could use their extensive wine knowledge for educational purposes by teaching in-person or virtual masterclasses.

However, through lots of patience and practices to help retrain the senses, sommeliers who’ve previously lost these senses or have experienced distortions from COVID-19 can likely restore these abilities. This way, they can continue to smell properly, learn to taste wine notes once again and do what they love.

Reading multiple accounts of how the pandemic has affected sommeliers reminds us never to take our smelling and tasting abilities for granted. This also reminds us of how wonderful it is to smell and taste wine.

If you’re looking for delicious wines full of unique aroma and flavor, we offer an extensive variety at Marketview Liquor. Whether you’re searching for the perfect red, white, rosé or champagne, we’ve got it all. You can shop from our unique selection to find your favorite brands and varieties. With our easy online ordering options, you can have your bottles delivered right to your door.

Let us help you find the perfect wine to satisfy your preferred taste and sweetness level. Browse our wines online today!When it comes to healthier wine choices, reds tend to get all the hype. But does white wine have any health benefits as well? We know that red wine is packed with antioxidants, helps regulate blood sugar, reduces bad cholesterol and can boost cognitive function. Still, you may be wondering if whites can have similar or different health effects on the body.

Is a glass of white wine good for you? We aim to answer this question in this complete guide to white wine and its potential health benefits. We explore the different vitamins, minerals and other compounds that make up white wine and the positive health effects that help explain why white wine is good for you. We also cover the recommended amounts of white wine to consume and specific varieties that tend to be better for your health.

Additionally, we compare white wine’s benefits to those of red wines, discuss the importance of choosing dry wines over sweet wines and provide some tips on shopping for these wines. Let’s get started!

Is White Wine Really Good for You?

While alcohol likely isn’t the first thing that comes to mind when you think of healthy foods and beverages, a glass of white wine can be a surprisingly healthy drink option.

So, why is white wine good for you? It’s full of antioxidants that can help reduce stress hormones and promote feelings of well-being, among many other things. This section looks at some healthy compounds found in white wine.

Is white wine heart healthy? If you’re looking to boost heart strength, a glass of white wine may be able to do just that. The antioxidants in white wine can help protect your heart and lungs, maintain blood sugar, prevent aging, fight off colds and improve brain function. Antioxidant properties may help lower the risk of multiple diseases such as cancer and heart disease.

White wine contains flavonoids, also known as vitamin P. Flavonoids are commonly found in different vegetables, fruits, tea, cocoa, red and white wines. This chemical is rich in antioxidants and anti-inflammatory properties that help regulate cellular activity. Like antioxidants, flavonoids can also help fight oxidative stress.

Polyphenols are naturally-occurring micronutrients found in plants. These powerful antioxidants can help reverse cell damage caused by aging, lower your cholesterol and risk of diabetes and improve overall heart health. Their antioxidant and anti-inflammatory effects may even reduce your risk of cancer by destroying active cancer cells and blocking tumor growth.

White wine contains caffeic acid, a phenol with antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties that can help reduce oxidative stress. Caffeic acid may help prevent the development of kidney and cardiovascular diseases. It’s also known to boost collagen production and help prevent premature aging.

White wine contains vitamins and minerals that are essential for daily nutrition. It includes small doses of magnesium, vitamin B6, vitamin B2, niacin and riboflavin. It also contains traces of iron, potassium, calcium, zinc and phosphorus. In the following sections, we explore the health benefits of some of these vitamins and minerals more in detail.

This mineral in white wine plays a pivotal role in maintaining heart health and strength. It can also lower blood sugar and blood pressure, improve muscle and nerve function and boost your mood. Additionally, it can help strengthen your bones.

Vitamin B6, or pyridoxine, is required to transport oxygen through your bloodstream, develop the brain and maintain strong immune and nervous systems. It also improves blood circulation and your overall mood.

Vitamin B2, or riboflavin, can help break down proteins, fats and carbohydrates. It also plays a pivotal role in supplying energy to your body, making it an essential vitamin found in white wine.

Vitamin B3, or niacin, may help lower cholesterol, relieve arthritis symptoms, improve skin health, boost brain function and more. However, it’s important to avoid consuming large doses at a time, as this can cause side effects such as vomiting, nausea and liver toxicity.

White wine is a good source of iron, an essential mineral for body growth and development. Iron is necessary to produce a protein called hemoglobin that carries oxygen from your lungs to the rest of the body and myoglobin, which supplies oxygen to your muscles.

Though calcium is more commonly linked to milk, it’s also present in white wine. This mineral is vital for maintaining strong and healthy bones, and it aids muscle movement by allowing nerves to carry messages between your brain and other parts of your body. Calcium also helps regulate blood flow through your vessels.

Potassium is commonly associated with foods such as bananas, potatoes, avocado, spinach and squash — but you may be surprised to know that it’s also in white wine. Potassium is a type of electrolyte that improves nerve and muscle function, regulates heartbeat and transports nutrients to cells. It also helps filter waste products out of cells.

Your body uses phosphorus to keep bones and teeth strong and healthy. This essential mineral also repairs damaged tissues, removes waste from the kidneys, makes DNA and RNA and helps your muscles contract.

Finally, white wine contains zinc, an essential nutrient for improving your immune system and metabolism function. Additionally, it’s known to speed up wound recovery and help treat chronic acne. However, it’s important to avoid it in large doses as this can cause indigestion, headaches and nausea.

What Are the Health Benefits of Drinking White Wine?

Drinking white wine can be healthy and good for you. In this section, we look at some interesting white wine health benefits. After reading this list, you may feel more comfortable when sipping your next glass of Riesling, Pinot Grigio or Chardonnay.

Here are seven health benefits of white wine:
• Improves cardiovascular and metabolic function: White wine is full of antioxidants, polyphenols, potassium and magnesium that collectively protect and maintain heart health. Additionally, minerals in white wine, such as zinc, can boost metabolic function.
• Bolsters lung function: Flavonoids found in white wine can reduce inflammation of the airways, which helps protect your lungs.
• Reduces the risk of kidney disease: White wine contains caffeic acid that may help prevent the progression of kidney diseases and other conditions. Its phosphorus content also helps protect the kidneys by filtering out waste.
• Protects against cognitive decline: White wine is rich in antioxidants, which are known to help prevent cognitive impairment that often comes with aging.
• Supports healthy cholesterol levels: Research has shown that both red and white wine lowered “bad” LDL cholesterol levels in multiple study participants.
• Supports weight-loss efforts: White wine can potentially aid in weight loss due to minerals like zinc that improve metabolic function.
• Helps prevent other diseases: In addition to helping reduce the risk of kidney and cardiovascular diseases, white wine may also protect against Alzheimer’s disease.

What Amount of White Wine Is Good for You?

White wine can be healthy for you as long as you consume it in small amounts. To achieve these potential health benefits from white wine while consuming it in moderation, the American Heart Association and federal guidelines recommend no more than one or two drinks each day for men and one drink each day for women.

Cooking with white wine may also be a good option for reaping these health benefits. Using wine in cooking can bring out the flavors of various foods and achieve healthy antioxidant-rich dishes. Here are some helpful tips for cooking with wine:
• Choose your wine carefully — only cook with wines you enjoy drinking.
• Use your wine to marinate meats such as steak, chicken and fish.
• Don’t add the wine to your dish right before serving — allow it to cook along with the food to enhance the savory flavors.
• Determine how much wine you add based on the amount and density of the food — with soup, for instance, add 2 tablespoons of wine per 1 cup of broth.

Types of White Wine That Are Good for You

If you’re trying to lose weight or simply want to make your diet healthier, you can select both red and white wine varieties that tend to offer more weight loss and health benefits than others. This section covers tips for choosing healthy white wines and some specific white wine varieties like Chardonnay and Pinot Grigio that tend to be some of the healthiest white wine options.

Though you should consume any type of wine in moderation, certain dry varieties with less sugar and alcohol tend to be better for your health. When choosing a healthy wine, you want to consider three main factors:
• Low alcohol percentage: Drinking too much alcohol can have several negative effects on the body, especially on your brain, heart, liver and pancreas. To consume it in moderation, choose a wine with a lower content of alcohol by volume (ABV). We recommend selecting a wine that does not exceed an ABV of 12.5%.
• High resveratrol concentration: Resveratrol is a plant compound that acts as an antioxidant — it can help lower blood pressure, protect your brain and relieve joint pain. When seeking healthier wine, try picking one with a higher resveratrol concentration.
• Low sugar content: Try to select a wine that contains less sugar, ideally less than 10 grams per liter. Dry white wines such as Chardonnay and Riesling tend to have lower sugar content, making them relatively healthier varieties.

What white wine is good for you? To answer this question, let’s take a look at some white wine varieties that tend to be healthier drink choices:
• Riesling: Grapes used to produce Riesling have skins that are rich in antioxidants. As mentioned earlier, these may help fight off certain chronic diseases. Consider choosing a drier Riesling over a sweet one to lower your sugar intake.
• Pinot Grigio: A glass of crisp Pinot Grigio may be your ideal choice of wine to improve lung health and even protect cells from certain cancers. It’s rich in caffeic acid and tyrosol that act as antioxidants and anti-inflammatories.
• Vinho Verde: Vinho Verde typically contains a lower ABV and sugar concentration, making it a healthier option.
• Chardonnay: Chardonnay provides a buttery and rich flavor and can help increase blood flow, improve bone density, boost good HDL cholesterol, and prevent clotting. This potentially reduces the risk of a stroke or heart disease as well.
• Viognier: Though it tends to be a less common grape variety, Viognier is a great white wine option with lower sugar content.

Is Red or White Wine Better For You?

Red Wine is generally considered healthier than white wine. As you may know, certain red wines tend to be better for you than others, offering more health benefits compared to other varieties. But can white wine match these red wine benefits? Is one truly healthier than the other?

This section compares white and red wine in detail, exploring their health benefits and how your body can react to them differently.

Red white contains many of the same compounds as white wine — antioxidants, flavonoids, polyphenols and more. Therefore, these can offer many of the same or similar health benefits.

Here are some of the main health benefits that red wine offers:
• Lowers disease risk: Due to its antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties, red wine may help prevent the risk of certain diseases, particularly heart disease.
• Increases “good” HDL cholesterol: Consuming red wine may help boost your HDL cholesterol level. This can help rid your bloodstream of LDL cholesterol, reducing the risk of cardiovascular events and diseases.
• Helps prevent cognitive decline: Like white wine, red wine is packed with antioxidants which may help prevent cognitive impairment that slows down the brain.
• Contains resveratrol: Red wine is typically rich in resveratrol, which boosts the wine’s anti-inflammatory and antioxidant properties even more.

Next, here’s a recap of the main benefits of white wine for health:
• May aid in weight loss: White wine contains antioxidants such as resveratrol, quercetin and epicatechin that can help promote weight loss. You can reap these potential weight loss benefits by consuming white wine in moderation — no more than one or two glasses per day.
• Prevents risk for diseases: As mentioned earlier, the antioxidants and flavonoids in white wine may help lower your risk of contracting Alzheimer’s disease and certain cancers.
• Protects your heart: White wine’s antioxidant, polyphenol, magnesium and potassium content can help maintain cardiovascular health and strength, regulating blood sugar and circulation.
• Promotes healthy lungs: Finally, white wine contains iron and antioxidants that can help protect and strengthen your lungs.

While both red and white wine offer an array of potential health benefits for your body, red wine is generally viewed as the healthier option of the two. This is mainly because grape skins are included when fermenting red wine, and white wine does not use grape skins during the fermenting process. And while reds and whites have many of the same vitamins and minerals, red wine typically contains higher amounts of these elements due to the included grape skins.

However, you should always consume any type of wine in moderation. Drinking red or white wine should not be considered a method to improve health. Remember to keep your wine intake to one or two glasses per day to limit alcohol, sugar and calorie consumption.

Certain factors that distinguish dry wines from sweet wines may also influence their health effects on the body. Let’s take a look at three of these factors:
• Fermentation time: The amount of time used to ferment the grape juice can often determine its level of dryness or sweetness. When making dry wine, the fermentation process is longer. For sweet wines, fermentation is shorter.
• Residual sugar: Residual sugar is the sugar left in wine after fermentation. The more residual sugar and added sugar, the sweeter it tastes. More than 35 grams is generally considered a sweet wine. Dry wines contain lower amounts of sugar, usually below 10 grams. The level between these two is known as “off-dry.”
• Calories: The number of calories also differentiates dry and sweet wines since more sugar means more calories. While a glass of dry wine contains about 75 calories, a glass of sweet wine has about 125.

Overall, dry white wines tend to be healthier than sweet whites due to their lower sugar and calorie content. For this reason, we recommend selecting drier varieties if you’re seeking healthier wine options. Consuming too much sugar can lead to negative health effects, such as increased blood pressure, inflammation, diabetes, weight gain and liver disease.

Simply drinking a sweet wine isn’t enough to cause these problems, but it’s still something to consider when choosing between a dry and sweet variety. Dry white wine health benefits tend to surpass those of sweet wines.

When seeking healthy and quality white wine choices, you may find it rewarding to try out new varieties, brands and companies. You could discover a new favorite wine that you didn’t even know existed.

You don’t have to turn to large, recognized brand names and corporations to find excellent wines. Step out of your comfort zone and try some unfamiliar brands and companies — you might find just the wine you’ve been looking for!

Here are three tips to keep in mind when shopping for healthy white wines:
• Be adventurous: You may find that turning to new names and brands is the best choice. Because many smaller vineyards don’t have mass production facilities, they often use their own special fermentation practices to make their wines extra delicious and unique. Give these wines a try!
• Buy from smaller wineries and brands: Because large alcohol corporations have more funding, it’s typically easier for them to sell wines. By shopping for a smaller brand, you can support an individual winemaker or family-owned business with a passion for making excellent wine and spirits.
• Consult a wine expert: If you need help shopping for wine varieties, aren’t sure where to begin or simply have questions regarding different types of wines, reach out to experts who can answer these questions.

Now that you’ve learned about the many potential health benefits of drinking white wine, it’s time to search for your ideal white varieties and brands! At Marketview Liquor, our unique white wine choices satisfy any preferred taste or sweetness level.

Whether you’re looking for a rich Chardonnay, a light and crisp Sauvignon Blanc or a sweet and elegant Moscato, we’ve got it all. Browse our selection of white wines and order yours today!With many expenses to consider when planning your big day, wedding favors may be the last thing on your mind. While you aren’t required to provide them, you’ll likely find that wedding favors are the perfect way to show appreciation for your loved ones as you tie in the theme of your wedding.

Below, we’ll cover a detailed list of unique wedding favor ideas to help spark your imagination.

When Should You Start Planning Wedding Favors?

Following your engagement, it’s never too early to start brainstorming ideas for creative wedding favors. However, ordering them very early in advance — such as several months before your wedding date — can present some risks. For example, perishable favors can start to spoil when ordered too early. As you move further into the planning process, potential adjustments in your wedding theme or decor may also require changing the favors.

On the other hand, you shouldn’t wait until the last minute to purchase your wedding favors. If you wait until the last couple of weeks, they likely won’t arrive in time. In that case, you’ll have to throw together some last-minute substitutions or omit the wedding favor idea altogether.

As a general rule, wedding favors should be in your possession at least two weeks before the wedding day. To ensure your favors arrive on time, be sure to check the estimated order processing time and shipping time listed on the company’s website. If you’re making DIY wedding favors, be sure to give yourself ample time to make them.

How Much Should You Spend on Wedding Favors?

While couples typically spend an average of $1-3 per guest, the price of your wedding favors should ultimately depend on how much you’re willing to spend from your budget — favors can be as lavish or as simple as you please.

If you’re looking to save as much money as possible on wedding favors, here are four tips to help you stay within your budget:
• Price companies and products: Certain companies may offer more discounted prices for wedding favors compared to others. If you’re eyeing a particular item on a website, you may be able to find one that’s the same or cheaper from another company. Conduct some research and price comparisons to seek out the most cost-effective options.
• Consider budget-friendly options: Simple yet elegant wedding favors such as jam or jelly jars, coasters, tea bags, candles, succulents, soaps or food items can be more budget-friendly options. Plus, they’re super fun and creative!
• Make your own: DIY wedding favors can be an excellent money saver. Making your own wedding favors can often be less expensive than buying premade ones, and you can choose from numerous ideas. Whether it’s homemade bath salts, decorated bottles of champagne or mini jars of honey, the possibilities are endless.
• Buy bulk wedding favors: When purchasing wedding favors — and most items for that matter — ordering in bulk is typically the most inexpensive option. Many stores will offer discounted bulk pricing, which allows you to save money while ensuring you have plenty of wedding favors to go around.

What to Keep in Mind When Choosing Your Wedding Favors

When selecting the perfect favors for your wedding day, here are some important tips to keep in mind:

Try choosing personalized wedding favors that are meaningful to you and your partner. Consider something that captures your personalities or something you both enjoy. For example, personalized bottles of your favorite wine, gifts inspired by your favorite date spot, homemade goodies from a family recipe or mini bags of coffee or tea.

Tie It Into the Theme

When planning favors for your big day, you can use the specific theme of your wedding to gather some ideas. For example, a glamorous Paris-inspired theme might include mini boxes of macarons or French chocolates as wedding favors. For a more rustic style wedding, you might consider giving your guests jars of Southern jams or jellies.

Think about planning wedding favors based on a particular season. If you’re having a winter-themed wedding, mason jars filled with hot cocoa mix and mini marshmallows would be ideal wedding favors. On the other hand, jars of honey may be more appropriate for summer, while maple syrup typically pairs nicely with fall. For a spring wedding, you might consider pressed flower-inspired favors.

Additionally, try to select appropriate colors for your favors to keep the theme consistent.

If you’re planning to order your wedding favors online, it’s critical to read reviews before purchasing them. Checking out product reviews from other customers can help you determine whether it’s worth buying the favors from that website or you should look elsewhere. If a particular item has mostly positive reviews, it’s more than likely a safe bet.

Try It Before Buying

Depending on where you order your wedding favors, you may be able to test out the item before buying it in a larger quantity. If possible, order a sample before buying it in bulk to ensure it smells good, tastes delicious or functions properly.

Remember to allow some additional time before the wedding to do a trial run for your wedding favors — you may want to order your sample no less than a month out from the wedding to give yourself plenty of time.

Like many other elements of wedding planning, it’s always important to have backups when it comes to wedding favors. Make or order some extras just in case — you never know if you may end up needing them. A few could break in transit or get lost, some guests may grab extras at the wedding or you may end up having a few last-minute RSVPs.

Think in Advance About Presentation

When planning a wedding, remember that it’s all in the details. Taking the time to make the presentation of your wedding favors unique and special can go a long way — even if you’re just handing out small or simple items.

Think of creative ways to package your wedding favors. You might consider personalized tags or themed wrapping to enhance the presentation. Additionally, think of a good spot in your venue to display them, such as a designated table near the entrance or exit.

Do you need a stellar idea for wedding favors that will highlight your theme and wow your guests? Check out this extensive list of homemade wedding favor ideas for some inspiration:

You can’t go wrong with edible goodies for your wedding favors. No matter what idea you come up with, foodie guests will surely enjoy bringing home these wedding favors to snack on. Here are some ideas for inspiration:

Olive oil can serve a variety of purposes, making it a practical and versatile wedding favor for your guests. Homemade or infused olive oil can be extra special and delicious. Add your choice of infusions such as fruit peel, dried chilis or fresh herbs to flavor the olive oil to your liking. Attach a printed tag to each bottle to share the recipe with your guests!

Cocktail kits are wonderful gifts for your guests of legal drinking age. There are a variety of ways to decorate and personalize these kits to complement your theme. Pick a cocktail, select the necessary ingredients and think of a creative way to package them. Remember to purchase the appropriate amount of ingredients based on your expected guest count.

You can incorporate any desired flavors, such as mango, pineapple or strawberry. Below are a few ideas for cocktail kits your guests can make at home:

Personalized wine bottle stoppers can be great wedding favors for your guests to take home. You can order them in colors that accent the desired theme or season. Below are some wine stoppers to give you some favor ideas:

Mini jars of homemade jam or jelly are charming and creative gifts for your wedding guests, especially if your wedding is more rustic-themed. They can incorporate any fruit flavoring you please — strawberry, grape, blackberry, raspberry, peach and more. Decorate your jars by wrapping the lids in some fabric, tying them with ribbon or string and adding a printed sticker or label with a recipe or cute thank-you note.

S’mores wedding favors are unique, creative and delicious gifts for everyone to enjoy. Be sure to pick up the appropriate amount of graham crackers, chocolate bars and marshmallows to accommodate your guest count.

To make these wedding favors, stack and assemble your s’mores, place them in plastic favor bags and secure them with twist ties or ribbon. Complete these favors by attaching personalized labels with a clever pun or statement of gratitude.

Bottle openers are creative and useful wedding favors for your guests. You can order these in specific colors or designs to accent your wedding theme. Whether it’s a classic two-piece corkscrew, a winged corkscrew or a soft touch corkscrew, there are a variety of styles, designs and colors to inspire your bottle opener wedding favors!

Consider giving out adorable mini jars of maple syrup for your wedding favors. These simple yet elegant gifts are especially ideal for an autumn wedding. Similar to the jelly jar idea, you can cover the lids in fabric, wrap the jars in colorful ribbon and attach a sticker or tag to each one. For these design features, consider using warmer tones such as red, orange, brown or gold to integrate an autumn color palette.

Wine wedding favors offer a variety of creative possibilities, making them excellent gifts for your guests. Personalized bottles of wine can incorporate customized features such as printed tags, special engravings or themed stickers.

You and your partner can create these gifts using your favorite brands of wine and engraved bottles with your names. Whether it’s bottles of your favorite red, white or sparkling wines, these will surely serve as special keepsakes to treasure long after your wedding day.

Tea is a simple yet delightful wedding favor idea. Tea bags are typically mess-free and easy to package, making them convenient and excellent gifts for your guests. Select your choice of tea or include an assortment of flavors. Then, choose a creative way to package it. You can place them in mesh drawstring party favor bags, use personalized paper packaging or place them in mini teacups.

No matter the season, tea is a classic and tasteful favor for any wedding. You can also use different flavors to complement the theme or season — lemon and strawberry for summer or spring, pumpkin or apple spice for fall and vanilla or mint for wintertime.

Spice up your wedding day with some personalized bottles of hot sauce! Use customized packaging, string or ribbon and colorful labels or tags to tie in your theme and design them to your liking. Making hot sauce at home with fresh, seasonal ingredients can be even better than buying it from a store.

If desired, attach the recipe to each bottle, add a tag with your names and wedding date or include a thank-you label with a clever hot sauce-inspired pun. The creative possibilities with this gift are endless!

Decorated jars of honey are great gifts for a spring or summertime wedding. Grab some string or ribbon and brightly colored fabric to wrap the lids. Then, print out some personalized tags or labels to craft these delightful honey jar wedding favors!

If you’re having a wedding in one of these warmer seasons, we recommend using softer tones such as baby blue, pale pink, light green and lavender. Floral fabric patterns can also be great for spring and summer.

Both you and your coffee-loving guests are sure to get a kick out of customized coffee wedding favors. Here are a few ideas to give you some inspiration:
• Personalized mugs with your names and wedding date
• Mini packets or decorated boxes of coffee grounds with your flavors of choice

Consider gifting some personalized shot glasses to your guests. You can have these glasses engraved with your names, initials, date of your wedding or a brief thank-you. Try ordering shot glass sets by the case to save money on your wedding favors.

Wine glasses are simple yet timeless gifts for your wedding guests. Order these in bulk and personalize them to your liking by adding your names, initials or the date of your wedding. You can even order plastic wine or champagne glasses as a more affordable option.

Perfect for a springtime wedding, pressed flowers offer a variety of beautiful and artistic wedding favor ideas. Here are some pressed flower favors to consider:

For lush green and earthy wedding favors, consider gifting mini succulents to your guests. Create small personalized boxes or pots to store these plants. Don’t forget to include notes with care instructions, too. Succulents can also make wonderful centerpieces for your reception tables.

If you’re looking for another plant-based idea, air plants make creative and unique wedding favors for your guests. Store these in mini pots and attach personalized tags for a charming and thoughtful gift.

If you and your fiance enjoy gardening, mini packets of seeds may be the perfect wedding favors for your big day. Store these packets in mini flower pots or customized paper packaging for adorable gifts.

Custom candles make lovely wedding favors for your guests, and there are a wide variety of ideas to consider. A supplier can incorporate your choice of favorite scents to accent the season or your wedding theme. You can decorate the lid with a personalized sticker or tie the candle with string for a rustic look.

With a variety of scents and colors to choose from, bath salt wedding favors will surely be a crowd-pleaser. You can purchase these salts or make them yourself and pour them into mini personalized jars or tubes.

Homemade soap is another wedding favor to provide a pleasing aroma for your guests. You can decorate small boxes to package the soaps or simply tie the stacks with sturdy string. Don’t forget to add some personalized tags, too.

For another relaxing and thoughtful gift to pamper your guests, consider essential oil or incense wedding favors. These can incorporate scents of your choice, such as rosemary, lavender, lemon or peppermint.

Are you inspired by the bath salts idea but want to take it a step further? Try creating some bath bomb wedding favors. Find a recipe for homemade bath bombs or purchase some of your own, then package them in mini mesh drawstring bags to secure their scent.

Fun and playful wedding favors are a creative way to bring out the inner child in both of you. Guests of all ages are bound to enjoy these gifts. Here are some fun and unique wedding favors you might consider:

If you and your partner are frequent travelers, custom luggage tags may be the perfect wedding favors to give your guests. These can serve as functional gifts for your guests while expressing your love for adventure at the same time.

You can print or order these tags in your desired colors or designs to help highlight your wedding theme. Include blank lines for guests to write their names, addresses and any other pertinent information. On the bag of each tag, you also might consider adding a travel-related pun or a small thank-you note for attending the wedding.

Personalized coasters make excellent wedding favors. You can easily match these coasters to the season or theme of your wedding. Here are some ideas:

Though it’s a rather unique idea, lottery tickets can be fun and creative wedding favors for guests. Try packaging them in paper envelopes with customized stickers or labels.

Are you planning a summer wedding? Consider giving out pairs of personalized sunglasses as wedding favors. These gifts are fun, simple and perfect to accompany the season.

You can order them in an assortment of fun colors or patterns to accent your theme. Customize these shades by engraving the arms or attaching personalized labels, then place them in a large basket for guests to grab on their way in or out.

Personalized ornaments make easy and excellent wedding favors for your guests, and they’re especially ideal if your wedding is close to Christmas! Here are some ideas for ornaments you might consider crafting:

Now that you have some unique ideas for wedding favors, let’s answer some commonly asked questions from our customers.

Are Favors Necessary at a Wedding?

There’s no rule in the magical wedding guidebook that states you must have favors at your wedding. However, favors do a great job connecting with your guests and thanking them for coming. They’re also a fun way to commemorate the occasion. At the end of the day, guests will be more focused on the happy couple than the gift they take home — but it can still be a sweet addition.

Is It OK Not to Have Wedding Favors?

Yes, it’s acceptable not to have wedding favors, though they’re a nice touch. Ultimately, it’s your wedding and you should be in charge of every detail. If you’re concerned about the cost, rest assured that wedding favors don’t need to be extravagant. They can be as simple as a piece of your favorite chocolate or a flower from the reception centerpiece. Favors don’t even have to be customized as long as they display a touch of the couple’s unique style.

What Should a Wedding Favor Be?

Wedding favors are a fun way to incorporate another detail of you and your partner’s interests into your wedding theme. Are you both travelers? Try a luggage tag. Wine enthusiasts? A wine pourer could be a great idea. Chocolate connoisseurs? Buy candy bars with your names and wedding date on them. Get creative with it! Overall, guests will prefer something practical and personal.

In place of physical favors, brides and grooms have used the money they would’ve put towards gifts and donated to a charity of their choice. You can make one large donation from the favor fund or place a donation in each of your guests’ names. Either way, a donation favor is an excellent opportunity for couples who are passionate about giving back.

What Is the Average Amount Spent on Wedding Favors?

There’s no estimate on how much should be spent on wedding favors — your budget is up to you as a couple to decide. For food items, the average might be around $5 per person. If your budget is smaller, you can spend around $2-$3 a person. Some couples even spend approximately $10-$20 per person if you prefer something more extravagant. Whatever your budget, it’s possible to find something doable that guests can take away from your wedding and enjoy.

We hope this sizeable list of wedding favor ideas will help inspire excellent gifts for your wedding guests. At Marketview Liquor, we can help provide the perfect wines or wine-related gifts to create lovely wedding favors for your big day. Visit our gift center or browse our selection of wine accessories to start gathering ideas today!Merlot and Pinot Noir are two popular wine varietals, and anyone from sommeliers to casual drinkers equally enjoys the fruity, bright and intense structures.

Consider this your guide to Merlot vs. Pinot Noir for beginners. While we can’t promise that you’ll be able to discern one wine from another with the expertise of a connoisseur, you will be able to recognize what makes each of these wines unique in their own right.

By familiarizing yourself with the taste difference between Merlot and Pinot Noir, as well as the acidity, body, color and aroma, you’ll be able to confidently order your preferred choice at any gathering and make informed and personalized recommendations to your friends.

The Merlot grape has a red skin and can grow in a variety of climates. The tannin structure and acidity will reflect the conditions in which the grapes were grown and when they were harvested. This allows wine drinkers to enjoy a wonderful variety of Merlots with complex flavors and depth.

Tannins provide structure, contributing to how a wine tastes and feels in your mouth as you are sipping it. When it comes to the tannin difference Merlot and Pinot Noir wines offer, you’ll notice slight changes depending on the type of Merlot you are enjoying. There are two methods used to create the beloved wine.

The international method requires the grapes to be harvested later in the season, allowing for a sweeter Merlot with significantly developed tannins. This variation of Merlot creates the signature full-bodied pour.

However, the Bordeaux Style calls for the grapes to be picked early in the season. This changes the color of the wine and produces a low tannin count. As you indulge in the soothing aromatic bottle, you’ll notice that a lower tannin count makes this variation of Merlot feel silky and possess fruit-dominant flavors. In general, Merlots will have a mid to high tannin structure.

Red wines, although categorized similarly, can range in the color scale. From hues of pale red to a deep purple, you’ll find wine that represents every color. Merlot is crafted using a black, thin-skinned grape, creating the iconic ruby red that sits right in the middle of translucent and opaque. Merlot is a significantly deeper red than its Pinot Noir counterpart, adding another notable difference pinot noir and merlot wines have from one another.

If you are served a glass of wine but are unsure whether you’re holding a Merlot, Cabernet Sauvignon or Pinot Noir, you can tell by the rim. The difference in Merlot and Pinot Noir wine color in the glass is that Merlot will show reddish-orange tones along the rim. Merlot wine will change as it ages, losing some pigmentation and vibrancy.

The term “body” refers to the weight the wine holds in your mouth. For example, a full-bodied red will be noticeably richer and weighty. When a sommelier compares the body of Merlot wine vs. Pinot Noir, their assessment once again depends on when the grapes are harvested.

Most Merlot structures, however, will fall between medium to full body. If you’re choosing a wine based on Merlot vs. Pinot Noir alcohol content, this is one element that will come into play. As a full-bodied wine, the alcohol content for a typical Merlot will measure around 13%. Merlot is often recommended for white wine drinkers because it carries a similar airy body that carries a refreshing fragrance. Even with a full body, the lower tannin levels make Merlot easier to drink for red wine beginners.

Every wine features a symphony of aromas and flavor combinations that make drinking it an enjoyable experience. Every sip tantalizes the taste buds and plays at the nose with smells that stimulate your senses. Aromas are influenced by the environment in which the grapes are grown.

Merlot will serve you a diverse bouquet of dark and red berries, plums, cherry, clove, vanilla, herbs, cocoa, tobacco and earthy scents. On your next sip, close your eyes and try to distinguish each element and how they come together to create a cohesive aroma.

Wines with high acidity will be noticeably tart with a citrus element that plays on the tongue. Those with low acidity will be softer and creamier. Merlots that are cultivated in a warm climate will be fruit-forward, with low acidity and slightly sweet. Merlot is a well-balanced wine, and the acidity for most bottles will stay within the medium range.

Merlot has a unique composition of flavors. When comparing Merlot vs. Pinot Noir tastes, you’ll get a range of fruits, wood and herbs. The main difference between Merlot and Pinot Noir flavors is the intensity. Merlot can vary from mild to intense, with a medley of cherry, raspberry, strawberries, plum, blueberries and blackberries.

You may also detect notes of chocolate, herbs, black pepper and earthiness. The best Merlot will have layers of these characteristics that seamlessly blend together and complement one another.

Merlot is considered to be a relatively intense wine. With moderate tannins, acidity, body and aroma, it is smooth yet lush with flavor. However, the greatest indicator of Merlot’s strength is the climate of its origin. When a Merlot is produced in warm environments like California, Chile, or South Africa, the end product will showcase greater intensity, sharp scent and darker fruit flavors.

Merlot was originally crafted in France, where the climate is significantly cooler. For varieties that are grown in cooler environments, such as Italy, France and New Zealand, the Merlot will be juicer with a burst of refreshing fruity berries. So while you may be wondering what the difference is between Merlot and Pinot Noir, you should also take into account the significant differences between bottles of Merlot.

With a lower tannin structure, Merlot offers a silky smooth finish regardless of the climate it comes from. Merlot has a signature smoothness that leaves a velvety finish on your tongue. Even so, it leaves behind a delightful mellow ending after each sip.

For individual bottles, you should taste lingering minor notes of earthiness, herbs and spices. Other wines will feel heavier when sitting in your mouth, whereas Merlot will maintain its light weight while sipping and in its aftertaste.

Pinot Noir is a French name that truly describes the essence of this fine and elegant wine.

“Pinot” refers to the Fresh term for “pine cone,” which is a reflection of the succulent cluster that grapes grow in, resembling a shape similar to a pine cone. “Noir” is the French word for “black,” which describes the remarkably dark color of the Pinot Noir grape. Upon first glance, you can get a sense of what to expect from a Pinot Noir in terms of flavor, color and tannin.

Now that you can identify the pallets and aromas served within a glass of Merlot, you can get a sense of other Merlot and Pinot Noir differences. From learning which one is fruitier to comparing the tannins and acidity, you’ll see there are many disparities that separate these two wines.

Pinot noir is one of the most popular wines in the world, partially due to its low tannin structure. Again, this particular wine is often recommended to white wine drinkers or those who don’t usually drink wine. The low tannin levels make this wine easier to drink while pairing well with many dishes.

The difference between Pinot Noir vs. Merlot tannins is absolutely tangible when comparing the two. Merlot rests notably on the tongue, whereas Pinot Noir will be lighter with a gentle coating. Grapes that are picked at the beginning of the harvesting season will have a lighter color, more active acidity and crunchier tannins. Grapes picked later on will result in a richer color, high alcohol content and silkier tannins.

Color is a small indicator of flavor, aroma and sweetness. At first glance, the untrained eye will hardly see a difference between a Pinot Noir vs. Merlot in terms of color. However, Pinot Noir is a lighter hue than Merlot, which is a deep velvety ruby. Pinot Noir, on the other hand, is paler and more transparent.

As beginners to red wine ease from white to rosé to reds, Pinot Noir is often introduced as the first recommendation. The fewer tannins and bright flavor make the transition into drinking red wine enjoyable.

Pinot Noir is a refreshing wine to drink because it holds just enough weight on your tongue. With every sip, you’re left with a light and fruity aftertaste. While many wine enthusiasts prefer to leave their reds for the winter, Pinot Noir is so bright and airy that it easily becomes a summer staple. The lower tannins and lighter color indicates a higher acidity with a sharp, bubbly and citrusy effect on the tongue.

Every kind of grape has its own unique taste and scent, giving the world hundreds of options to choose from. Between private family-owned wineries, vintage labels and mass-produced wines, you can try several similar batches, and they will taste noticeably different.

In the case of Pinot Noir vs. Merlot wine, both boast aromas of flavorful berries. However, the dominant aroma will vary in every pour. On a specific scale, your nose will pick up scents of red and black cherries, raspberries, blackberries, currants and even tomatoes.

Along with the traditional fruit base, you’ll notice floral scents of violet and rose petals, and a light oak of vanilla, sweet wood and coconut. Some herbs and spices that are paired with a Pinot Noir grape include rhubarb, oregano, green tomato, beetroot, black olive and green tea. The Pinot Noir vs. Merlot taste difference and tannins are two of the biggest factors that will help you decide on what to buy.

One major difference between Merlot and Pinot Noir wines is in the acidity. Along with sweetness, tannin and body, acidity contributes to a wine’s overall structure. The acidity gives wine its tartness. Merlot is rich, heavy and is on the lower side of the acidity scale. Pinot Noir, on the other hand, is very high in acidity.

With a lighter body and higher acidity, Pinot Noir shines with light and fresh red berry flavors. The amount of acidity combined with the other structural elements make this wine perfect for light meals and earthy flavors.

Luxurious crafts of Pinot Noir will provide an eclectic variety of flavor and intensity. With a fresh, ripened grape, the strength of the spices brings a welcomed balance that grounds the bold flavors. Among the most common flavors of Pinot Noir, besides fruit, you will find mushroom, tomato, cinnamon and earthy notes.

There are also even more subtle notes that a trained pallet can detect. The soft hints of the wine’s terroir will float through, leaving tones of earth, truffle and meatiness. This is another characteristic that levels the diverse and sweet flavors that typically dominate the bottle.

In general, Pinot Noir is a light and refreshing wine. Comparing the complexity and structure of Pinot Noir vs. Merlot dryness and strength, the former is significantly brighter and less intense. The flavors, aromas, acidity and tannins all contribute to the strength of a wine.

In terms of alcohol content, the difference between a Merlot and Pinot Noir is not far off. A typical Pinot Noir rests between 13-14% alcohol content.

Even the best wines can be ruined by a distasteful finish. Enjoying a delicious wine only to dislike the aftertaste is disappointing to say the least. Fortunately, Pinot Noir is an elegant wine that has a balanced yet distinguishable flavor during and after every sip.

Unlike heavier red wines, Pinot Noir is light-bodied and allows the layers of aromas to shine so that every element can shine through. While enjoying a glass, you’ll notice a long and smooth finish that remains light and easy on the tongue. Wines with higher tannins and bolder flavors will coat your mouth. Pinot Noir is much sharper and brighter.

Merlot Compared to Pinot Noir: How to Pick Between and Differentiate the Two

As you browsed through this article, you probably noticed some distinct similarities and differences. However, the true contrasts and similarities are best understood when these two wines are placed side by side. From Pinot Noir taste vs. Merlot flavors to what foods they best pair with, here is a complete breakdown and ranking to help you choose which bottle best suits your personal palate.

You’ll often hear that drinking a glass of red wine can contribute to better overall health. However, the articles that circulate this information every few years don’t always explain which types of red wines offer these benefits. Fortunately, both Pinot Noir and Merlot have antioxidants that help to balance your blood pressure and cholesterol.

In terms of Pinot Noir vs. Merlot healthier compounds, Pinot Noir stands out just a little bit more. It contains more resveratrol, which is the element that works to lower blood pressure, improve brain health and optimizes your body’s sensitivity to insulin.

Many people track their calories and carbohydrates, and their choice of alcohol is no exception. Since most wines have a significantly higher sugar content than other types of alcohol. Each barrel of wine will vary slightly in their nutrition, so a precise account of the nutritional facts won’t be exact. Regardless, here is the breakdown of Pinot Noir vs. Merlot nutrition.

One ounce of Pinot Noir contains:

In comparison, 1 ounce of Merlot contains:

For many wine enthusiasts, the alcohol content is a big factor in deciding which brand and type of wine they drink. The difference between a Pinot Noir and Merlot in terms of alcohol content is minimal. Both tend to range from 5.5% to 15%, but on average, they will fall between 13% and 14.5%.

Not everyone enjoys a dry wine, though many reds are on the drier side. So, when you are comparing Pinot Noir vs. Merlot, which one is sweeter? Unfortunately for those who prefer a sweet wine, neither of these wines are what you are looking for. Although both are great recommendations for introducing someone to red wine, they are significantly dry.

If you do favor a dry wine, though, then both will please your palate. When comparing Pinot Noir vs. Merlot dryness, the former is slightly more earthy and dry, and the latter is just a little bit sweeter.

What Is the Difference Between the Shelf-Life of Pinot Noir and Merlot?

Anyone who drinks wine knows that there is an expiration date on every bottle. And while a standard bottle size serves a generous portion to one person, there is a timer that immediately begins upon popping the cork. Some wines are only good on the same night that they are opened, while others can last for a few days before developing a vinegary taste.

The Pinot Noir and Merlot difference in age-ability is vast. Merlot only has an age-ability of three to five years, while Pinot Noir is two to 18 years. The difference in Merlot and Pinot Noir storage is similar. Red wines in general should be stored in a cool, dark place. Although Merlot will last up to four days once opened, due to its higher tannins. Pinot Noir will usually last around two days.

Experience the Flavor and Intensity of the Best Merlot and Pinot Noir at Marketview Liquor

From deep, robust reds to sparkling rosé, Marketview Liquor has a delightful and diverse range of exquisite wines that will fit every palate and preference. Now that you know what the difference is between a Pinot Noir and Merlot, you can put your skills to the test.

Our extensive catalogs of Merlots and Pinot Noirs allow you to choose your wine based on your personal taste.

Filter through our selection by choosing your price range, year, alcohol content or region right from the comfort of your couch. Indulge your senses by browsing our Merlot wine or Pinot Noir selection, and order your first bottle online today!A wine gift basket makes an excellent gift for many occasions. Whether you want to congratulate newlyweds, celebrate a co-worker or dote on the wine lover in your life, the combination of wine, foods and accessories offers both practical and experiential delights. Its versatility makes it an asset in anyone’s do-it-yourself arsenal. Make it elaborate or simple. Customize it to an individual’s preference. Buy in bulk and make batch gift baskets that are ready to assemble in minutes. No matter how you decide to do it, you can give a homemade gift that’s fun to make and they’re sure to love. Ready for some inspiration? We’ve compiled our best tips and tricks to help you become a master wine basket curator. Here’s how to make a wine gift basket.

One of the best things about wine gift baskets is how customizable they can be. Building each on the same framework allows for plenty of diversity and versatility. Getting creative with the categories and combinations makes gift baskets such a fun gift to give and receive! However, before you can start freestyling, you need to know the fundamentals. Here are the essential pieces for compiling a great wine gift basket.

It can be easy to get carried away with DIY wine basket gift ideas. If you’re not careful, buying individual items and putting them together can cost more than you were planning to spend. Plus, quality wine, gourmet food and accessories can add up quickly if you’re not discerning. That’s why the first essential to a wine gift basket is a budget! Knowing how much you can afford will plan your homemade gift accordingly.

Deciding where to splurge and where to save is crucial when considering luxury items. However, try not to put all your eggs into one basket. If you invest everything into the wine, you probably need a decorative wine sleeve and not a basket. Conversely, if you go all-out on pricey snacks, you may end up pairing it with a wine that doesn’t quite live up to the rest of the gifts. As with most things, a middle-of-the-road approach is best when making a gift basket on a budget.

The most critical part of your gift basket is wine. That’s pretty obvious, right? However, it may be less obvious that your decision will significantly impact the rest of the contents — maybe even the basket. In a sense, by choosing the wine, you’re also selecting the theme. If you’re not sure which direction you want to go, several criteria can help you decide, such as:
• The type of wine the recipient prefers
• Whatever pairs best with the food you wish to include
• Whatever matches the season and its festivities
• The occasion the gift is commemorating

Once you decide on the wine, you’ll use it as a springboard to choose the rest of your gifts, so it all pairs accordingly!

The next essential item is the basket. Most people envision rattan or wicker when they think of gift baskets, but this doesn’t always have to be the case. The receptacle you choose only has one fundamental criterion — holding all the items in one place. That opens up all sorts of possibilities! By thinking outside the (ahem) basket, you can make the vessel an equally valuable part of the gift. It can be a bag, a pail, a box, a bucket or anything you wish, so long as it can contain all the components. One tip for choosing the right base is to consider what the recipient may reuse. While most people may not need a shallow, handled basket, they may love a modern storage wicker one instead! Or perhaps you can try a decorative metal basket, a picnic basket or woven cotton basket.

One of the best things about wine is how it pairs with other delicious foods. It’s practically an art form. Bolstering your basket with gourmet snacks enhances the overall experience for the recipient and offers an enticing hint of luxury. There are so many delicious wine and food combinations to choose from, but for basket purposes, you’re going to want to mostly stick to nonperishable or shelf-safe items. Think snacks such as cheeses, chocolates, crackers, jams, cured meats, nuts and popcorn. One exception to this rule is fruit, though you’ll want to ensure your recipient knows there’s fresh fruit inside they’ll need to eat immediately or store in the fridge.

Now that you have the wine and snacks, it’s time to fill out the basket with accessories! Imagine the gift basket as a kit for a wine-and-dine event. What supplies might they need to enjoy their evening? Here are some great options to consider:

Depending on the recipient, you can customize any of these accessories to their tastes or interests!

Last but not least, it’s time to fill in the gaps and top it all off with embellishments. When constructing a gift basket, you’ll need to fill the spaces between each item to prevent slipping, sliding and damage to anything delicate. Some typical options include shredded, crinkled kraft paper, Easter grass and tissue paper, but you can get a little fancy and subsidize some stuffing with tea towels or cloth napkins. You can also use fillers to prop up specific items or as buffers between sections. For instance, if the wine bottle has settled in lower than you like, try adding some extra paper shreds or a folded tea towel beneath it to prop it up higher.

The final flourish for your gift basket will be wrapping it in large cellophane wrapping or a basket bag, typically bunched over the top of the basket and finished off with a bow or ribbon to tie it all together.

Now that you have all your essential items, it’s time to put them all together! Wine gift basket ideas are all about aesthetic presentation, so here are some steps that will help you compile an eye-catching wine gift basket.

To start, get out your basket and fill it with filler material about halfway to the top. Don’t use your whole supply — you’ll need some for later. If you’ve selected a generously sized basket, try balling up newspaper or kraft paper to take up the extra room in the bottom. Now, gather all of the items you plan to include and lay them out by size so you can clearly see what needs to go inside. If the receptacle has a lid, now’s the time to affix it to the back or beneath the container.

There are a few ways to arrange items in a gift basket, and it can be helpful to choose one ahead of time. Here are some ways you can arrange your gift basket so that it not only looks beautiful but also fits all the items you plan to include.

The first way is to build the arrangement from back to front, creating a background of large items, a middle ground of medium items and a foreground of the smallest items. Think of it like lining the items up on risers. For this arrangement, you’ll want to rely on some of your filler material to boost items that may be too small to peek out from behind the lip of the basket or to give some added height to the items toward the back. Duplicates can also serve as platforms if you are already prominently displaying one of the items, such as boxes of crackers or jars of jam.

Another way to arrange your basket is to start from the center and work your way to the outer edges. The tallest item will go in the middle, then rings of additional items fan out away from it until the smallest items are lining the outer rim. This arrangement works well for circular baskets. Filler material will come in handy to create buffers between the rings and prevent glass items from cracking against each other. You can also use this arrangement to create “cake” tiers, a great design idea if you decide to do a dessert-themed basket.

The “Z” formation starts with the largest item in one of the back corners or edges of your box or container. Depending on which side you choose, your “Z” may end up backward, which is OK. Then, layer items from largest to smallest across the back edge, down the diagonal line and across the front edge of the box. Use filler material to help the heights of items descend more seamlessly or to bolster the items in the back of the basket. If you want to arrange horizontally and vertically, try layering multiple items across the back to give the basket an even fuller look.

Now that you know which arrangement you’re going to use, it’s time to build it out! Out of your assortment of gifts, select one of the largest items to serve as your focal point. It could be the most eye-catching item, such as a sign, a cheese board, a book or a large box of chocolate. It could also be the tallest item in the bunch, depending on how you plan to arrange the gifts.

Position this item toward the back or center of your basket, spreading out the filler material to make a placeholder for this item. Now, going from largest to smallest, create the formation using the most substantial items available. It’s not a bad idea to hold off on incorporating the smallest items just yet. Focus on the most substantial gifts first.

Once you have shaped the basket’s skeleton, it’s time to fill in the gaps. Fluff out any areas that seem limp or void by adding extra filler material or incorporating smaller gifts like cheese knives. Don’t be afraid to open a bag of chocolates or other individually wrapped foods or candies and scatter them on any areas that seem vacant. You can also tuck in folded pieces of tissue paper that stick out for an added embellishment.

Now it’s time to finalize your basket. If you need to remove items and rearrange them multiple times, that’s OK! Try out whatever combination you wish until you’re satisfied and ready to wrap it up. Once you’re happy, get out some cellophane. Roll out the plastic and center your basket on the sheet, ensuring you have enough to cover the whole basket with material to spare for bunching at the top.

Cut the size you need, wrap it, bunch it and lastly tie it off with a bow or ribbon. There you have it — a perfectly wrapped wine gift basket.

A little extra inspiration never hurt anyone. If you’re looking for recommendations or want a springboard for your own gift basket, we’ve compiled a bunch of wine gift basket ideas to help you craft the present everyone will be talking about.

One way to theme a basket is around a special occasion. Whether it’s a life milestone or an annual holiday, here are some of our best wine basket ideas for special occasions.

A thoughtfully designed corporate wine basket is an elegant way to show your appreciation to clients, and you can even personalize it for a company or specific client based on their preferences. There is a broad selection of corporate wine gifts, including bottles of wine, champagne, gift certificates and more.

You can also choose wine by the bottle or case, making it easy to buy a gift for an individual client or an entire team. If you know the kind of wine your clients enjoy, you can choose these specific wines or even mix and match a selection, allowing your clients and business partners to enjoy a unique range of flavors. Choosing a wine gift basket can be a stress-free opportunity to pick the perfect gift for your business partners.

Christmas wine gift baskets are a great homemade present. They’re welcome at celebrations at home or at work. Start with a decorative mesh basket and line it with a festive tea towel or cloth napkins. Choose one treat to go with each wine and wrap them individually with a label to indicate which day to open it. Add some holiday ribbon and sleigh bells to the handles and tuck in some sprigs of holly, pine or mistletoe for a final touch.

Whether it’s an office Christmas party, the boss’ birthday or an employee milestone, a wine gift basket fits the bill for your office gift exchanges. As long as you take time to find out any food allergies or dietary restrictions, it’s hard to go wrong. If you’re close with the recipient, you may even want to specialize the items to their particular tastes or interests.

If you’re looking to send gifts to your clients or potential customers, incorporate branded items. Wine glasses etched with the company logo or custom wine labels for bottles will keep your company at the top of their minds as they’re enjoying their wine and snacks. If you’re sending a basket for a whole office, encourage employees to share with individually wrapped items and prepackaged portions.

Another opportunity for office gifts is to buy wine and other accessories in bulk and assemble multiple baskets simultaneously. Going this route means you can take advantage of bulk pricing, which will save you big time if you’re planning to spend a sum on multiple gifts.

Ah, marital bliss. There are few things more romantic than a shared bottle of wine between two lovebirds. Curate a marriage milestone basket to present as a gift for a bridal shower or at the wedding. Customize some wine glasses with their married name and wedding date. Include a monogrammed corkscrew. Don’t forget a cork collector to help them commemorate the bottles throughout their marriage!

Sprinkle these items with a few bottles of wine designated for their “firsts” — first night, first fight, first New Year’s Eve, first house and first anniversary. If you know the bride and groom well, you can choose between chocolates or cheeses, but embellish the rest with romantic reminders. If you’re not sure what to choose, rely on their registry to select their preferred wine accessories, tea towels and storage containers to create a gift they’re bound to love.

A housewarming party is a perfect occasion for a wine gift basket! Wine is a traditional housewarming present and the new homeowners will be thrilled to have some food to help them transition during a move or to feed hungry helpers who are carrying boxes. You may also want to include wine accessories they might not have unpacked yet, like a corkscrew, cheese plate and cheese knives. Add some home decor items, like a beautiful throw blanket or a candle.

If you’re still looking for ideas, why not try some of these themed baskets? Modify these for special occasions or spur-of-the-moment surprises.
• Wine and chocolate: Start by choosing your chocolate — white, milk or dark. Based on which treat you choose, pair a bottle accordingly. Pair white chocolate with a Riesling, milk chocolate with a Pinot Noir and dark chocolate with a Merlot.
• Wine and cheese: If you want to start with a red wine, try a bottle of Cabernet Sauvignon and include hard cheeses like aged Gouda, Asiago and cheddar. If you need a white wine pairing, keep the cheddar and Gouda and opt for a bottle of Chardonnay instead. Fill out the rest of the basket with a cheese board, cheese knives, crackers and jams.
• Wine sampler: Instead of one large 1.5-liter bottle, why not fill the basket with various smaller bottles for the recipient to try new wines? Top it off with a gift card so they can get a full bottle of their favorite.
• Wine movie night: Use a popcorn bucket as your basket, stick a bottle of Pinot Grigio in the center and build the rest up with specialty popcorns and chocolate-covered nuts or raisins. If you want to put it over the top, include a gift card to a streaming service, such as Netflix.
• World wine tour: Choose a country of origin and select a wine from there to theme your box around. Research common snacks, chocolates or candies from these cultural regions to sprinkle throughout the basket.

With any of these ideas, you’re sure to delight any number of loved ones or associates.

No matter what gift basket you want to make, Marketview Liquor is your one-stop shop for all your buying needs. Whether you’re looking for a bottle of red or white or wine-related accessories to make your basket shine, we have the supplies you need to start your gift basket off right. Our robust catalog of wines ranges from Napa Valley to the Finger Lakes, Barbados to New Zealand. Whether your budget is tight or limitless, there are options for everyone to choose from.

Ready to build your basket? Browse our wine and order today.Do you want your favorite bottle of wine on your doorstep at the press of a button? With online shopping, your wildest wine wishes can come true. These days, buying wine online is easier than ever, but if you want to buy wine online right, you need to know how the ordering process works and what to look for.

Keep reading to find out what to consider when buying wine online so you can have the best virtual wine shopping experience possible.

Yes, you can buy wine online and have it shipped directly to your doorstep — and direct-to-consumer (DTC) wine shipments are becoming quite popular. From 2019 to 2020, the DTC sales channel for wine grew by 27%, which is unprecedented for the industry. This increase in sales means that around 8.39 million cases of wine were shipped to consumers in 2020 alone. As long as you have internet access, you can be one of these millions of consumers buying wine online.

While it is possible to buy wine online, should you do it? The sections below will discuss the safety of having wine delivered to your house and the potential benefits of buying wine online.

Is It Safe to Buy Wine Online?

Buying wine online is a safe process with precautions in line to ensure your wine arrives on your doorstep undamaged. One safeguard in place for ordering wine online is requiring an adult signature upon delivery. Make sure you or another adult is present when your wine is scheduled to arrive so the delivery can be completed.

While buying wine online poses little risk, there are still some measures you can take to optimize your online wine ordering experience. For instance, be wary of the summer heat. Wine is fragile and being exposed to extreme temperatures can cause damage to a bottle of wine. If the temperature in your area is higher than about 80 degrees Fahrenheit, consider asking FedEx or UPS to hold your shipment of wine at one of their locations, so your wine doesn’t end up sitting in a blistering delivery truck all day.

Fortunately, reputable online wine shops recognize the risks of subjecting wine to extreme temperatures and will often avoid shipping altogether in exceptionally hot or cold conditions. In addition, most online wine sellers will use foam shippers and other means of protecting wine bottles sent out for longer-haul shipments.

Here are the top five benefits of buying wine online:
• Wide variety: Ecommerce browsing functions were practically made for wine shopping, so make sure you use them to your advantage. Customize your wine search by red or white, region and tasting notes. When you shop with an online vendor with a large selection of wine varieties, you will have no problem finding the perfect wine for your preferences.
• High-quality choices: Along with quantity, online wine shopping offers quality. Online wine vendors have to maintain the quality of their wine to avoid receiving negative reviews from customers. This extra layer of accountability means you can be confident you’re ordering high-quality wine when you buy online.
• Flexibility: Buying wine online allows you to make your purchase at any time. Instead of waiting for your local vineyard or wine shop to open, you can order wine online whenever is most convenient for you. Even in the hours well after midnight, a bottle of wine is only a click away when you shop online.
• Convenient delivery: Imagine having your favorite bottle of wine arrive right on your doorstep. With online ordering, this dream can be your reality. Instead of having to drive to local wine sellers and scan the aisles for the best wine, virtual wine vendors offer doorstep delivery to make your wine buying experience as simple as possible.
• Savings: In addition to targeting certain types and brands of wine, you can adjust your online wine search based on a price range to ensure you stay within your budget. Buying wine online also tends to be more affordable than purchasing wine in person. Online businesses do not have to worry about some of the overhead costs that brick-and-mortar shops do, which allows them to offer their products for less.

If you want to take advantage of all the benefits buying wine online has to offer, you need to know how buying wine online works. Check out the steps below to learn how to buy wine online.

Before you place your wine order online, make sure you plan on having your wine shipped to a state that allows its residents to receive wine shipments through the mail. While some states allow intrastate shipments, some states do not permit alcohol shipments from other states. There may even be different rules for different regions within your state. Make sure you check your state’s alcohol shipment laws before placing your online order.

2. Plan How You Will Receive Your Wine Shipment

As mentioned previously, your wine delivery will require the signature of an adult older than 21 for the package to be legally received. If you or anyone else over 21 cannot be at your house to receive your order of wine, make sure you request for the package to be held at your nearest FedEx or UPS office. Once you’ve arranged the details for receiving your wine delivery, you’ll be ready to select the wine you want.

Whether you are an adventurous wine taster interested in trying lots of different varieties of wine and just trying to find the best deals or you already know the exact type of wine you are looking for and just want to get it for the best price, you need a reliable strategy for finding deals for wine online. Check wine sites for deals that will help you get your favorite bottle of wine at a discounted price.

If you’re not concerned with price, simply use the search filters to find the perfect wine for you based on type, region, packaging and more. Once you have made your selection, proceed to the checkout and order your wine just like you would any other product online. Then, all you have to do is wait for your wine delivery to arrive at your doorstep!

When it comes to where to buy wine online, you have options. Essentially, these are the three main online sources for purchasing wine:

While each of the above is a viable option for ordering wine online, you will most likely want to buy your wine from a virtual wine and liquor store. These types of online vendors typically have the greatest variety of wines to choose from and grant you more control over what type of wine you receive. For the best online wine buying experience, make sure you shop with an online wine seller with a good reputation among wine enthusiasts.

Knowing more about what to consider when buying wine online will help you select a premium wine with superior tasting notes. Below, you will learn how to buy a case of wine online that will impress your dinner party guests.

If you are trying to buy quality wine online, follow these three tips for making the process efficient and effective:
• Find a reputable online wine shop: Of course, you can’t purchase your wine from just any website if you want to serve or sip a top-quality glass. Instead of buying wine from the first online vendor that pops up when you search, take the time to look for an online wine seller that carries quality wine and genuinely cares about its customers.
• Be wary of wine clubs: Searching for online wine shops often turns up a variety of offers to join different wine clubs. These wine clubs are buying programs that function as a subscription service, shipping you a couple of preselected wines on a monthly or bimonthly basis. Despite the temptingly low prices that these types of wine clubs often offer, they are usually not worth the risk of not knowing the type of wine you will be receiving or its quality.
• Let the bottle of wine rest: After you receive the wine you ordered online, make sure you give it some time to rest before opening and serving it. Occasionally, certain bottles of wine do not endure the stress of shipping as well as others and do not taste as satisfying as they could if served too soon after arrival. This concept is commonly referred to as “bottle shock” in the industry. When receiving a shipment of wine, it is best to play it safe and let the bottle or case sit for about a week or two before consuming the wine.

Where Is the Best Place to Buy Wine Online?

As online shopping continues to become everyone’s favorite way of buying items, more and more online wine sellers continue to pop up. However, knowing what to look for when buying wine online can help you choose a reputable online wine seller you can trust.

You can make finding a dependable online wine vendor quick and simple by looking for a site that has been featured in Newsweek as one of the best places to buy wine online. Newsweek does a thorough job of vetting virtual wine sellers so that you don’t have to do the research on your own. An online wine vendor must pass a number of tests, including surveys from thousands of virtual shoppers, to make Newsweek’s list of best online shopping experience providers.

Specifically, Newsweek has named Marketview Liquor a top site for buying wine online. Marketview Liquor’s wide selection and exceptional customer service set it apart from the competition, making it a favorite place to order wine online for many wine connoisseurs. Whether you are looking for a new bottle to add to your collection of go-to wines or are interested in trying a new variety of wine, you will have no problem finding what you need at Marketview Liquor.

Along with an expansive array of top-notch wines, Marketview Liquor prioritizes its customers’ virtual shopping experience. Marketview Liquor provides its online customers with a shopping experience that is similar to an in-store browsing experience by offering one of the most comprehensive and easily accessible wine selections, expert wine recommendations and a simple checkout process.

In addition to its outstanding customer service and wine choices, here are a few more reasons you will want to place your next online order of wine with Marketview Liquor:
• Budget-friendly options: Marketview Liquor offers a wide range of exceptional wines for less than $8. Get an unbelievable deal by choosing from their collection of great-tasting and competitively priced wines.
• Deals on top-quality wines: Marketview Liquor carries a substantial inventory of 90-point wines for $15 or less. Because wine critics rate bottles according to a 100-point scale, any wine that scores 90 points or more has been found to have a remarkable color, appearance, smell, flavor, finish and overall quality. Scoring one of these 90-point wines for $15 or less is an incredible deal.
• Special discounts for select cases: If you want to buy wine by the case, Marketview Liquor offers a 10% case discount on certain bottles of wine. Taking advantage of this deal can help you host an amazing event on a budget.

Browse the Wine Selection at Marketview Liquor and Order Online

Are you ready to try buying wine online from a top vendor? Check out the impressive collection of wines from Marketview Liquor and place your order today. Whether you are looking for a sweet red, a dry white, a sparkling blush or another type of wine, Marketview Liquor can help you find a bottle you’ll love. We will ship your order directly to your door, so you can enjoy sitting back and letting your wine come to you.

Order your wine online from Marketview Liquor and sign up for our newsletter to stay up to date on all of our latest shipping offers and featured wines.If you’re having trouble choosing between a bold, full-bodied red or a buttery sweet white, try mixing it up with something that’s equally different and delicious. Dress up your latest bottle with a cocktail recipe that will stimulate your taste buds and elevate your connoisseur status.

In the past, wine cocktails have been mistaken for being overly sweet and frilly, especially in comparison to dark liquors with higher alcohol content. However, wine is more versatile than you may think. With such a great variety in complexity, boldness, acidity and sweetness, the combinations of wine cocktail recipes are only limited to your imagination and available ingredients. There is a recipe for every bottle, occasion, and meal from familiar classics like spritzers and sangrias to new age trends of frozen drinks and herb garnishes.

It’s time to set the wine coolers aside for something a little more sophisticated. This compilation of the best wine cocktail recipes will show you how to make a wine cocktail that is tasty, memorable and sure to be the highlight of your next get-together or dinner party. So grab a glass and ready your garnishes because these thirst-quenching wine cocktail ideas are worth every sip.
• Create Your Next Cocktail with Wine From Marketview Liquor

A traditional cocktail contains a sweetener, a bitter and a distilled spirit. However, the evolution of mixology has allowed the conventional elements of mixed drinks to include such a great variety of ingredients that the standard definition allows room for customization and experimentation. A wine cocktail is a mixed drink in which the wine can be used as the bitter, spirit or sweetener. In addition to the base ingredients, a cocktail can also include other mixers such as fruits, syrups and infusions.

A wine cocktail is a mixed drink that’s predominantly made with wine, so it provides the primary alcohol by volume. The difference between a wine cocktail and a cocktail made with wine is the amount of wine used compared to other various forms of alcohol.

A cocktail made with wine may have a base of whiskey, tequila, vodka or rum with just a splash of red or white wine to top it off. Think of it as comparing a New York Sour to a Sangria. There are also plenty of wine cocktail recipes without liquor that are just as intoxicatingly delicious as their boozier counterparts.

Remember that just like any savory dish or nectarous drink, a perfectly made wine cocktail should tantalize the taste buds with a medley of flavor profiles, aromas and complexities. Keeping these guidelines in mind, here is our list of the best cocktails you can make with wine.

Mixing with red wine can be tricky because there are so many great flavors to choose from. The most organic way to categorize red wine cocktails is sweet vs. dry. Depending on which type of red you have, you can mix and match complementary ingredients to create a delectable drink. If you’re unsure whether that bottle in the cabinet is sweet or dry, here is a guide to help:

These sweet wine cocktail recipes harness the sugary elements in your favorite reds by using zesty tart flavors to create a harmonious and refreshing treat.

The citrus and raspberry liqueur pair well with the soft acidity of a sweet red.
• Combine the wine, liqueur and juices in a pitcher and refrigerate until chilled.
• Stir the mixture well and pour over ice.
• Top each glass with 0.5 oz. of lemon-lime soda and citrus zest.

This mix is the perfect addition to your wine-only cocktail recipes repertoire.
• Pour wine over berries, followed by seltzer.

Embrace the bold, full-bodied intensity that only dry reds can bring with these dry red wine cocktail recipes.

Although it requires a bit more work than your average wine cocktail, you can’t go wrong with this twist on a classic whiskey sour.
• Add all of the ingredients except the wine into a shaker and dry shake for approximately 10 seconds.
• Fill the shaker with ice and shake once again to chill.
• Double strain the cocktail into a glass and float the wine on top with a spoon.

There’s nothing like a classic red wine sangria recipe to please a room. Although there are many ways to create this signature drink, the best sangrias are made with a dry but fruity red, like this one.
• 1/2 orange, sliced with peel on and seeds removed
• Place fruit and sugar into a large pitcher and use a wooden spoon to muddle for a minute.
• Add brandy and orange juice to the mix. Muddle once again for 30 seconds to combine the mixture.
• Pour red wine into the pitcher and stir. Continue adding wine, brandy, brown sugar and orange juice to adjust the flavor to your preference.
• Add the ice and stir one more time to chill.

Sometimes all it takes is a basic recipe to make the best drink. These easy red wine cocktail recipes simplify the complex structures of red wine to serve unforgettable refreshments.

If you are a fan of the standard margarita, you will love this unique take that includes a splash of red wine.
• Add the lime juice, syrup and tequila to a shaker, fill with ice and shake until chilled.
• Strain into a glass and flat the red wine on top with a spoon.

Mixology doesn’t get much simpler than this. With just three ingredients, you have a signature cocktail that dates back to the roaring ’20s.
• Add all of the ingredients into a glass with ice.

White wine cocktails are a barroom staple, and chances are you have already enjoyed one or two in the past. From spritzers to mimosas to sangrias, white wine offers the perfect base for creating mouth-watering flavorful drinks. Just like red wine, white wine has more than a dozen varieties. The flavor, finish, intensity and other characteristics that define a wine will depend on the maker and type of grape, so there are endless possibilities when it comes to creating new white wine cocktail recipes.

Here is a guide that you can follow to simplify the concept of the sweetness spectrum:

Now that you are more familiar with the types of wine that can act as a base for your next drink, here are some white wine cocktail ideas to get you to try out for yourself.

When it comes to wine-based cocktail recipes, this simple yet intricate drink incorporates a diverse range of flavors.
• In a large glass, combine the wine, honey syrup, Calvados and verjuice.
• Fill the glass with ice and stir to chill.
• Strain into a wine glass, squeeze the lemon juice over the top and enjoy.

As far as Riesling wine cocktail recipes go, you can’t go wrong with this simple spin on a traditional mojito.
• Combine the chilled lemonade and wine in a large pitcher.
• Juice the limes and add to the mixture.
• Mince the mint leaves and add to the pitcher right before serving.

Moscato wine cocktail recipes are perfect for sunny summer days because they pair well with fresh fruit. This Moscato punch is no exception. Serve at your next barbeque for a fruity refreshment.
• In a large pitcher, combine the cranberry juice, ginger beer, pomegranate juice, Moscato and triple sec. Stir well to combine.
• Add orange slices and cranberries to a glass and fill with ice.
• Pour the punch into the glass and enjoy.

With cocktail recipes easy enough for anybody to make, you’ll fool anyone into thinking you’re an experienced bartender.

Don’t worry if you don’t have the copper mug to complete the look; this wine-inspired take on a Moscow mule adds a little sweetness to the traditionally tangy drink.
• Add all of the ingredients to the cup and stir to combine.

A simple white wine sangria recipe is essential to any host’s skill set. All it takes is a couple of oranges and a bottle of your favorite white wine.
• In a large pitcher, combine the brandy, fruit and schnapps.
• When it’s time to serve, top it off with a splash of ginger ale.

Bellini’s are a common fruity cocktail on every menu. Add this simple drink to your recipe book and enjoy.
• Add the peach puree to the bottom of a champagne flute.
• Top with the prosecco, followed by the raspberry syrup for color.

If you are planning your next holiday party or just looking for something new to try, we’ve got you covered with wine cocktail recipes easy enough for anybody to make while still achieving a festive flair. There is a mix for every occasion from cocktail recipes with rosé wine to wine-only cocktail recipes.

Fruit cocktail wine recipes, sometimes called “summer water,” are the revitalizing nectar you need on those hot and humid days.
• Add the strawberries, lemon and agave to a mixing glass and muddle with a wooden spoon.
• Add the Sauvignon Blanc, vodka and ice to the mixture and shake to combine.
• Strain over ice and top with seltzer.
• Combine the peaches, lemon juice and simple syrup in a blender. Blend until smooth.
• Pour the blended juice into an ice cube tray and place into the freezer until frozen.
• Place five ice cubes to the blender and add half a cup of white wine. Blend on low speed until an icy consistency forms.
• Combine all the ingredients, except the seltzer and ice, in a large pitcher.
• Serve over ice and top with seltzer.

‘Tis the season for spiced cocktails and deliciously rich beverages. These holiday wine cocktail recipes will bring all the merriment to any festivity.

Sangrias are a year-round staple. This rosé wine cocktail recipe stands above the rest because of the aromatic symphony of spices that accompany the high ABV.
• In a saucepan, combine the water, cloves, sugar, cinnamon and allspice.
• Allow the syrup to simmer on low heat for 15 minutes.
• Strain the mixture into a bowl, then add the apples and cranberries.
• Cover the bowl and place it into the fridge to chill overnight.
• The next day, strain the fruit while saving the syrup.
• In a large pitcher, combine the Cointreau, rosé, port, cranberry juice, fruit and 3/4 cup of the syrup.
• Refrigerate the sangria until chill, serve over ice.

Warm up by the fire with this sensationally sweet cocktail of bitters and cherry juice.
• Combine all ingredients, except the club soda, in a cocktail shaker and fill with ice.
• Roll the shaker from side to side to gently mix.
• Strain the cocktail over ice and top with club soda.

Sparkling wine is a must when toasting any joyous occasion. Whether you prefer a simple mimosa or something with a little more flair, a bottle of bubbly always adds glamour.

There’s no need to reinvent this timeless classic. The champagne cocktail is more than a century old but is still as irresistible as ever.
• Place the sugar cube at the bottom of a champagne flute.
• Add the bitters to the cube and squeeze the lemon peel over the top to release the oils.
• Fill the glass with champagne and serve.

For added grandeur, pour a splash of champagne into any fruity beverage. The traditional cosmopolitan sparkles with this added ingredient.
• Add the lime juice, vodka, cranberry juice and ice to a cocktail shaker. Shake until chilled.
• Add a dash of simple syrup to sweeten and shake once again.
• Pour into a martini glass and top with champagne.

The French 75 is a light and elegant cocktail. It proves that simple ingredients can create an unforgettable drink.
• Add the gin, lemon juice and simple syrup to a cocktail mixer. Shake well to chill.
• Strain into a champagne flute and top off with sparkling wine.

End the night with a cocktail that is as sweet and satisfying as a slice of cake. Every sip is meant to be savored as the perfect end to a lovely evening.
• Place the orange slices and crushed ice into a glass and muddle with a wooden spoon.
• Add more ice into the glass and pour over the sherry, followed by the cranberry juice.
• In a saucepan, boil the sugar, cocoa powder, spices and wine.
• Slice the apple in half and add to the pan. Allow it to boil for 3 minutes.
• Add the chocolate to the mixture to melt.
• Continue boiling on low heat for 3 to 5 minutes.

Create Your Next Cocktail with Wine From Marketview Liquor

Now that your creativity is sparked with colorful and delicious recipes, it’s time to test them out for yourself. Marketview Liquor has a bottle for every adventurous pour, from sparkling bubblies to rich robust reds and everything in between. Best of all, you can shop our extensive selection online and get your order shipped right to your front door so you never have to miss a beat.As gluten-free lifestyles become more popular, you may find yourself wondering if you could still drink your favorite bottles of red or white wine if you switch to this new diet. In short, yes, wine is gluten-free. Generally, gluten-free wines are regular wines that you can find with ease.

However, just because the wine itself is free of gluten does not mean that gluten couldn’t have been introduced to the wine at some point during the wine-making process. There are four basic steps in wine-making:

People living with gluten intolerance, celiac disease or a gluten-free diet should pay special attention to the clarification and aging and storage stages, as they are usually when gluten might be introduced into the wine. We’ll take a look at these processes below.

Clarification refers to the process winemakers use to remove any particles and debris that may be present in the wine. Once this stage is complete, the wine achieves that clear, smooth finish we all expect. Many winemakers use fining to achieve this quality, which is the process of introducing a binding agent into the wine that attaches to the particles for easier removal.

Although these fining tools are usually gluten-free, like egg whites or bentonite clay, there may be times winemakers use gluten as the agent. In these cases, almost all of the gluten is left behind as sediment.

Still, the FDA and the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau (TTB) allow wines to be labeled as “gluten-free” with trace amounts — less than 20 parts per million — in the drink. So, if you need a truly gluten-free wine due to your body’s sensitivity, the best way to know for sure is to call the vineyard itself and confirm their process does not introduce gluten into the wine at any point.

Gluten entering your wine is even less likely during this stage. The only reason gluten might become incorporated into wine at this point is if the wine is aged in a wooden barrel that is sealed with a flour paste. If this product does contaminate the wine, it’s likely to be trace amounts that will not affect most people, even if they have celiac disease.

If you know anything about wine, you probably recognize the difference between wine and wine coolers. Wine coolers are made with malt, a barley grain that contains gluten. If you have a gluten-free diet, it would be best to avoid these drinks. Instead, consider branching out in your wine tastes and picking out sweeter options that are similar to wine coolers.

Although most wines are safe for people on a gluten-free diet, it’s better to be safe, especially if you experience life-threatening celiac symptoms. That’s why Marketview Liquor has an entire category on our website for gluten-free wines that you can feel safe drinking. White, red or rosé, still or sparkling — whatever your wine preference is, we have the gluten-free solution for you.Are you looking for a crowd-pleasing, customizable cocktail that’s easy to make and suitable for just about any occasion? The white wine spritzer is your answer. White wine spritzers are the ultimate party drink because they’re light and refreshing, making them easy to sip all night without feeling weighed down. Although a white wine spritzer is delicious any time of the year, it’s an especially great drink during the summer due to its bright, fruity flavors.

If you’re not sure what a white wine spritzer recipe is or how to come up with a good one, this article is for you. Below, you’ll learn what a white wine spritzer drink is, how to make a spritzer with white wine and what the best white wine spritzer recipe for you is. Discover the perfect white wine spritzer drink recipe for your next big event, small gathering, girls’ night or me time.
• What Is the Best White Wine for a Spritzer?
• How Do You Make a White Wine Spritzer?

In its simplest form, a white wine spritzer is a mixed drink made with white wine and soda water. Diluting wine with water dates all the way back to 19th-century Austria, when it was used as a way to create bubbly wine. Typically, the wine gets diluted to about 75% or 50%, depending on personal taste.

Be careful not to confuse a spritzer with a spritz. The difference between the drinks is about as subtle as the difference in their spelling. While a spritz is made with sparkling wine, bitters and soda water, a spritzer most often uses still wine and gets all of its bubbles from the non-alcoholic components of the drink. This makes a spritzer lower in alcohol content and more thirst-quenching than a spritz.

What Does a White Wine Spritzer Taste Like?

White wine spritzers are best known for being extremely refreshing. As a fizzy, slightly drier take on plain wine, a spritzer in its most basic form solely offers some carbonation to white wine. However, most white wine spritzer recipes include some sweet ingredients, such as fresh fruit or flavored soda, to balance out the dry wine’s taste.

What Is the Best White Wine for a Spritzer?

When it comes to how to make a good white wine spritzer, it all starts with the wine. The beauty of a white wine spritzer is you can use any white wine you want as long as you make sure it’s thoroughly chilled before you start. This means the best white wine for a spritzer is your favorite white wine!

It is helpful to choose your white wine after deciding on what mix-ins you want to include in your spritzer. If you plan on adding sweet ingredients to your spritzer, such as fruit juice, you may want to pick a dry wine. On the other hand, you may want to go with a sweeter wine if your other ingredients won’t add much sweetness to the drink.

As you experiment with different spritzer combinations, you’ll discover the best wine for white wine spritzers according to your own tastes. Until then, consider these top white wine recommendations for a crisp, dry spritzer:

If you’re in the mood for a sweeter spritzer, try one of these white wines that taste more like dessert:

What Is a White Wine Spritzer Made Of?

In general, a white wine spritzer consists of white wine, sparkling water or club soda and a garnish of some sort. Aside from these basic white wine spritzer ingredients, what goes in a white wine spritzer is entirely up to you. You can choose whether to use flavored sparkling water, what types of garnishes to include, whether to add other liquids and if you’ll customize your drink other ways.

The following section will give you more ideas on how to customize your white wine spritzer.

Now that you’re familiar with what a spritzer is, here are the five fundamental steps for how to make a wine spritzer with white wine:
• Pour a serving of the chilled white wine into a glass.
• Add as much soda water as you’d like, usually around 25% of the mixture.

Once you have this basic concept down, you can start incorporating your favorite fruit flavors, fun garnishes and other add-ins.

How Do You Make a White Wine Spritzer Your Own?

If you’re wondering how to make a white wine spritzer personalized, you’re in luck — your wine spritzer ingredient options are virtually limitless! You can step up your white wine spritzer game by adding anything from fresh fruit and herbs to popsicles and kombucha. You can choose your spritzer ingredients according to taste, aesthetic appeal or both.

Here are some white wine ingredient options to get your creative juices flowing:
• Berries: Sliced strawberries, raspberries, blueberries or blackberries go great with dry white wine spritzers.
• Citrus: Citrus fruits like lemon, lime and orange are great for adding some tartness to a sweeter spritzer.
• Other fruit: Aside from citrus and berries, you can add cherries, peaches, apples or just about any other fruit to your white wine spritzer.
• Herbs: Using some fresh mint, basil or thyme as a garnish for your spritzer can add an exquisite layer of flavor.
• Flavored soda: Sneak some extra flavor into your spritzer by using a flavored soda like Sprite, Fanta, 7Up Cherry, Sunkist and others. Using flavored sparkling water or seltzer is another great way to make your spritzer pop without altering the color as much.
• Fruit juice: Sweeten your spritzer up a bit by adding some fruit juice. Sipping on a white wine spritzer with a splash of orange juice, pineapple juice or any other fruit juice will have you feeling like you’re on a tropical vacation.
• Ginger beer: Using ginger beer instead of soda in your spritzer will give the drink an extra zing.
• Kombucha: Swap out the soda in your spritzer for kombucha to keep things interesting. As a naturally effervescent fermented tea, kombucha will boost your spritzer’s bubbles while adding more flavor and sweetness.
• Hard alcohol: Give your white wine spritzer a bit more pizzazz by adding a shot of flavored vodka or other types of spirits.
• Popsicles: Skip the ice cubes and keep your spritzer cool with popsicles. Simply pour white wine and sparkling water into a glass, dunk a popsicle in the mixture and let the frozen treat infuse your spritzer with its fruity flavors.

With so many varieties of flavored sodas, fruit slices and more to choose from, you can whip up a different white wine spritzer every weekend.

Having the freedom to mix and match whatever flavors you want with your white wine spritzer gives you a world of possibilities. But it’s always nice to have a reliable white wine fruit spritzer recipe up your sleeve. If you’re not sure how to start mixing your own spritzer, check out these top 10 recipes for white wine spritzer beginners:

When it comes to classic white wine spritzer recipes, this basic spritzer recipe is the textbook standard. If you’re looking for a no-frills, uncomplicated white wine spritzer, this is the recipe for you.

You’ll only need a few things to make a classic spritzer:

Use these steps to make this drink:
• Pour the wine into the glass, then add the seltzer.

On nights you’re feeling a bit more creative, you can jazz this recipe up by adding your favorite flavors and garnishes.

If you want one of the easiest white wine spritzer cocktail recipes of all time, look no further! This simple spritzer recipe calls for just three ingredients.

Here’s what you’ll need to make a single-serve cocktail in minutes:

Here are the instructions:
• Top off the glass with the club soda.
• Peel a section of lemon rind using a vegetable peeler or paring knife.
• Twist the lemon rind over the glass before adding it to the liquid.

Get the most out of this easy spritzer by chilling both the white wine and club soda as much as possible before serving. You can get them cold by placing them in the freezer for up to half an hour before crafting your cocktail.

This sauvignon blanc spritzer recipe features an innovative combination of fresh fruit and herbs. As a bonus, the vibrant colors and fun shape of the melon cubes make this delicious mixed drink delightful to look at, too.

Brighten up your day by concocting the recipe with these ingredients:
• About four frozen melon cubes, like watermelon

Use these steps to make this spritzer:
• Pour the wine over the melon cubes.
• Tear off some fresh basil leaves and use them as a garnish.

If you have a melon baller, you can use that to shape your frozen melon into spheres instead. Consider making extra frozen melon cubes or spheres so you can use them throughout the week or churn out a sophisticated spritzer at a moment’s notice.

You can make a truly beautiful cocktail with a bottle of Champagne. Specifically, a pomegranate Champagne spritzer is perfect for both the summer and the winter. No matter the weather, you’ll enjoy sipping on this flavorful and bubbly spritzer.

Follow these steps to make this refreshing drink:
• Release the arils from the pomegranate half by holding the pomegranate over a bowl and hitting it with a wooden spoon.
• Squeeze the juice from the lemon half over the pomegranate arils.
• Pour the water over the pomegranate and lemon juice mixture, then stir to combine.
• Spoon the mixture into an ice cube tray and place the tray in the freezer for about an hour or until frozen solid.
• Put one of the pomegranate ice cubes in a glass and top it off with Champagne.
• Allow the ice cube to melt a bit before enjoying.

If you have a bottle of chardonnay you’re itching to use, you’ll love this white wine spritzer recipe with chardonnay. A hint of ginger and refreshing lime juice pair perfectly with the dry white wine to create an invigorating spritzer.

Here’s what you need to make it:

Follow the recipe to put your chardonnay to good use:
• Pour the chardonnay into a glass, then top it off with the ginger beer.
• Garnish your cocktail with your fresh or candied ginger.

If you like your wine spritzers on the sweeter side, you can swap the ginger beer for ginger ale. You can also play with the proportions of the liquids to adjust the sweetness.

If you can’t get enough of sangria in the summertime, this white wine sangria spritzer will quickly become your new favorite cocktail. The cocktail’s gorgeous pink tint also makes it perfect for the summer season. Follow this recipe the next time you can’t decide whether you want wine, sangria or a spritzer.

Get these ingredients together to make this spritzer:
• 1/2 cup of cherries, pitted and cut into pieces
• Several cherries with the stem for garnish

Follow these steps to create this flavorful beverage:
• Cut the peaches into small pieces and place them in a bowl with the pitted and chopped cherries.
• Pour white wine into the bowl until the fruit is completely covered.
• Add the vodka to the bowl, stir, cover and place in the fridge for about an hour or so.
• Once the fruit mixture has chilled, pour it into a sangria jug or pitcher, along with the rest of the white wine and the soda.
• Pour the sangria spritzer into glasses and add a whole cherry to the rim of each glass.

Just because you’re keeping an eye on calories doesn’t mean you can’t enjoy a white wine spritzer. With a mojito white wine spritzer, you can have a refreshing cocktail for less than 100 calories. Next time you’re craving a lighter drink, try this recipe.
• About four drops of stevia, optional

Here’s how you make it:
• Gently muddle the mint leaves with the lime juice in the bottom of your glass.
• If you are using stevia, add the drops to the mint leaves and lime juice for additional sweetness.
• Pour the white wine into your glass.
• Top it off with seltzer and mix well.

If you don’t have seltzer on hand, you can substitute club soda.

Sprite is a staple ingredient in spritzer recipes. Sprite’s inherent lemon-lime taste allows you to get more flavor with fewer ingredients. Follow this white wine and Sprite spritzer recipe to create a delicious cocktail for minimal effort.

Here’s what you need to make this recipe for a crowd:
• 1 liter of Sprite or another lemon-lime soda

Follow these simple steps to create this drink:
• Fill the glasses you’re using completely with ice.
• Pour the white wine until each glass is half full.
• Top off the glasses with Sprite.

You can ramp up this recipe by using a different flavored Sprite, such as cranberry Sprite, depending on your personal preferences.

This super sweet white wine spritzer recipe gets its sugar boost from moscato, which is one of the sweetest white wine varieties around. The saccharine nature of moscato makes it the perfect partner for fresh, juicy strawberries, as demonstrated by the fruity white wine spritzer recipe below. Whether you choose to enjoy your moscato spritzer as a mid-day treat or for dessert, you’ll love this delectable drink.

Use the following to make this recipe:
• About four fresh strawberries, cut in half
• Pour both the wine and soda into a glass.
• Spoon the strawberries into the glass.

If you plan on making this moscato spritzer for a crowd, use a full bottle of wine and about three cups of soda. Add fresh strawberries and ice to each glass.

Citrus fruit and white wine are like two peas in a pod. Because the flavors complement each other so nicely, a citrus white wine spritzer is a must. The best part about this citrus white wine spritzer recipe is you can use it year-round. Simply switch out the lighter flavors for wintertime fruits like blood orange and grapefruit during the colder months.
• Two bottles of dry white wine, such as pinot grigio
• Two cans of sparkling water or seltzer with real fruit juice, preferably a citrus flavor

Follow these instructions to make this recipe:
• Prepare the citrus fruits by cutting them into halves and then cutting the halves into thin slices.
• Pour the dry white wine and sparkling water with fruit juice into a large pitcher.
• Arrange the fruit slices as garnishes around the rim of the pitcher.
• Pour some of the wine mixture into glasses until they are a little more than half full.
• Top off each glass with a bit of plain sparkling water, which will add some fizziness.
• Garnish each glass with a couple of fresh citrus fruit slices before serving.

Make sure you chill both the white wine and the sparkling water ahead of time — you’ll want this drink served as cold as possible. If you aren’t able to find sparkling water with real fruit juice, you can substitute plain sparkling water with bottled orange juice. Start by adding about half a cup of orange juice to the mixture at a time, tasting the mixture and then adding more juice until it reaches your desired level of sweetness.

If you’re ready to give white wine spritzers a try, order your white wine spritzer from Marketview Liquor today. At Marketview Liquor, we offer a wide variety of pre-made wine spritzers so you can enjoy a spritzer flavor you love while saving time and energy. When you order a pack of white wine spritzers from Marketview Liquor, all you have to do is crack open the can, sit back and enjoy!

For those who would rather mix up their own spritzer, check out our large inventory of white wines. We have everything from chardonnay and pinot grigio to moscato and riesling, so you’ll have no problem finding the perfect bottle for your spritzer recipe. Ordering our wines online is easy, and you can get your favorite bottle of white wine shipped directly to your door.

Treat yourself to a refreshing cocktail any day of the week by checking out the spritzers and wine options at Marketview Liquor today.Have you found yourself wanting to dive more deeply into the meanings of various wine terms but don’t know where to begin? It can be challenging to articulate what happens at a wine tasting and to speak about the swirling of the fruity undertones bursting upon your taste buds, the delicious taste of oaky red wine and the supple texture of a soft white wine in your mouth. With our descriptive guide to wine tasting terminology and definitions, you can take your knowledge to the next level!

Whether you are hosting a party, going to a wine tasting at a vineyard or want to brush up on your wine tasting terms and how to use them, this guide will help show you the way by starting at the very beginning!

You might think a wine tasting is only for professionals, but it has become a social tradition many people can enjoy together. Wine tasting is the act of sampling small pours of different types of wines to evaluate them individually. Many tasting rooms provide pens and paper for guests to take notes about their favorite qualities. You may also use your wine tasting notes to jot down common wine tasting terms so you can ask questions about them.

At the end of your wine tasting, you will usually choose a bottle of the wine you enjoyed most. Often, wine tastings also offer pairings with delicious foods like cheeses and desserts.

While wine tastings have a fun, relaxed atmosphere, you will still learn several wine tasting terms and descriptions. Sometimes, knowing these beforehand can assist you in understanding the words your server or sommelier uses when describing a specific wine’s complexity. It can also help you use the correct wine tasting terminology to describe a wine’s taste to someone else.

Wine tasting is a multisensory experience. For example, before sipping a wine, swirl it around your glass to notice its colors. Breathe in the aroma to distinguish what parts of the bouquet your sense of smell picks up.

Next, after sipping your wine, it is up to you whether you would like to spit it into a provided tumbler or swallow the wine to gauge its taste completely.

Wine tastings are an entertaining, informative way to find your next favorite wine!

Some wine tasting terms have a different dictionary definition than they do in the context of winemaking. Familiarizing yourself with wine terminology can come in handy when you’re at a loss for words to describe a wine’s taste and aroma, so let’s jump right in!
• Barrel fermented: Some winemakers choose to ferment their wines in steel, concrete or oak barrels.

2. Tannins: These are the phenolic compounds in wines that leave a bitter or dry taste in your mouth.

3. Residual sugar: Residual sugar is the unfermented grape sugar found at the end of the wine’s fermentation process. The amount of residual sugar differs from wine to wine. Generally, dry wines have 10 grams per liter of residual sugar, whereas sweeter wines have at least 35 grams per liter of residual sugar and can continue to increase from there.

4. Dry: The term “dry” refers to the wine’s makeup. Generally, dry wine is lower in residual sugar content. If the wine has a 1% sweetness level, it is a dry wine.

5. Sweet: Sweet wine is the opposite of dry wine and includes dessert wines. Depending on the wine, the sugar content can be high, ranging from one to eight grams of sugar per glass.

6. Acidity: The acidity of a wine is what makes your mouth water. Think about eating a lemon slice and how its tartness makes your mouth pucker. Red and white wines both have acid, but too much acidity in wine can make your wine taste too harsh, and too little can leave your wine tasting somewhat bland. A low pH indicates higher acid levels.

7. ABV: The abbreviation for alcohol by volume. You will find this on the back of a wine bottle on the wine label listed as a percentage.

8. Complexity: When a wine exhibits numerous odors and flavors that are hard to put your finger on, it’s complex.

9. Aroma: You might wonder what a person is doing when they swirl their wine around in their glass and take a deep inhale while smelling it. They’re taking in the wine aroma, also known as the “nose,” which can consist of various scents such as fruity, floral, citrus, corky or smoky.

10. Aftertaste: Wine’s aftertaste is the flavors that linger on your taste buds when you drink wine or swirl it around in your mouth before spitting it out. Aftertaste is the most crucial factor in judging wine’s quality.

11. Body: Experts often judge wine for how palatable it is — light, medium or full-bodied.

12. Light-bodied: When a wine is lighter in overall body weight, it tastes delicate and subtle to the tongue. Sometimes, light-bodied wines will have higher acidity and less alcohol and tannin.

13. Full-bodied: Full-bodied wines contain the highest amount of alcohol and feel fuller in your mouth. They pair well with rich and fatty foods like steak and pasta.

14. Blend: Blending different grape varieties helps winemakers produce a more complex and well-rounded product with enhanced flavors, aromas, color and texture.

15. Delicate: White wines with light fragrances and flavors are delicate. These can enhance the flavors of sushi and other fish dishes.

16. Elegant: A refined, sophisticated and aged wine with more developed tannins and a soft or velvety mouthfeel.

17. Buttery: A wine characterized by its creamy texture, which is generally rich with less acidity.

18. Corked: Generally, wines sealed with a cork have a musty flavor and a dry aftertaste. Many people dislike corked wines, which is why some wines come with screwed-on tops.

19. Rich: Matureness and a fruity character produce a richer aroma and taste. Rich wines can be reds, whites or rosés.

20. Jammy: When someone refers to a wine as being “jammy,” it’s because of the sweet berry undertones that come to the forefront when sipped. Jammy wines tend to consist of nearly overripe grapes.

21. Quality: Experts look at different factors to determine a wine’s quality, such as the vines’ environment, the species and varieties of grapes and the enological and viticultural practices.

22. Oxidized: When wine goes through oxidation, it tends to lose its vibrant color and taste. Oxidized wines get exposed to oxygen for long periods. That’s when the acetaldehyde converts to acetic acid, turning the wine to vinegar.

23. Sommelier: Typically employed by a fine dining establishment, a sommelier has professional knowledge of wine and can specialize in wine service, wine and food pairings and wine storage. At a winery, a sommelier will educate you in the wine tasting process.

24. Vinology: Vinology is the scientific study of wine and winemaking.

25. Nutty: A nutty wine has nuances similar to the aromas of nuts. You can find nutty flavors in wine aged in oak barrels.

26. Opulent: When bursting with character and complexity, with rich, smooth and bold undertones, wine is opulent.

27. Yeast: Microorganisms produce enzymes that convert sugar to alcohol. Yeast is necessary for the fermentation of grape juice to wine.

28. Balance: When all different components such as acidity, sweetness, dryness, tannin and alcohol in wine work perfectly together, they form a well-balanced wine.

29. Young: A fresh, crisp bottle of wine sold generally within a year of its vintage is a “young” wine.

30. Bottle sickness: Bottle sickness is a temporary condition sometimes caused by the shipping and handling process. When newly bottled wines travel long distances, they can become unsettled, muting their flavors and aromas. You can “cure” bottle sickness by letting the wine rest for a few days before opening it.

31. Cedary: Cedary wine smells like cedarwood. You may notice these odors in blended wines aged in different oaks.

32. Earthy: Earthy aromas describe positive and negative attributes in wine. Earthiness can be an unwanted quality if a wine smells or tastes like soil. However, on a positive note, it adds complexity to the flavor, which makes it enjoyable for many enthusiasts.

33. Fruity: This termrefers to the wine’s flavor, which derives from a base of non-grape ingredients containing aromatic, fruity notes, such as pineapple, apricot, peach and pear. Fruity wines mostly have a sweet taste with low alcohol content.

34. Fleshy: Fleshy is how a wine feels on your tongue. Fleshier wines have chewy, flavorful and full-bodied qualities.

35. Phylloxera: Phylloxera is a microscopic insect that kills grapevines by attacking their roots. A 19th-century phylloxera epidemic destroyed a large swath of the vineyards for wine grapes in Europe, most notably in France.

36. Fortified: Originally made in Portugal, fortified wine is traditionally a sweet red wine that comes in various styles, including sherry and port wine.

37. Off-dry: When you hear someone call a wine “off-dry” or “semi-dry,” it may contain a small amount of residual sugar to give a perceived sweetness.

38. Musty: When your wine has a damp or stale aroma, wine experts advise it’s best not to drink it. Musty flavors indicate a wine fault.

39. Toasty: Wines aged in oak barrels have toasty aromas and aftertastes.

40. Clone: Cloning is a widely used practice in agriculture and viticulture. Genetically identical grapevines cultivated from a single mother plant are clones.

41. Filtering: Often, winemakers filter their products twice. The first time is to remove the yeast particles, and the second time is to remove bacteria before the bottling process.

42. Savory: Savory flavors cover a broad range of wines that project an aroma opposite to sweet wine and give more of an earthy, dry and vegetal flavor.

43. Vintage date: The year printed on your wine bottle’s label is the vintage date.This term refers to the year the winemaker harvested the grapes.

44. Spicy: When a wine is spicy, it often exudes flavors and aromas of cinnamon, pepper, clove or anise and gives the sensation of a sharp burning feeling in your nose and mouth like when you eat a bit of wasabi.

45. Racy: Racy wine is a style of wine more than a flavor or aroma. Racier wines generally have lively acidity.

46. Brut: In France, brut is the driest sparkling white wine category and means dry, raw or unrefined. When winemakers speak of brut, they refer more to a style than a variety of wine.

47. Fermentation: Fermentation is when yeast converts sugar into alcohol and carbon dioxide, turning grape juice into wine.

48. Hot: When a person refers to a “hot” wine, it means the wine is relatively high in alcohol and leaves a burning sensation at the back of your throat when you drink it.

49. Ullage: The gap between the cork and the wine is the ullage, also known as the fill level. Wine buyers pay attention to this when buying a more mature vintage, as it tells them the wine’s health.

50. Tartaric acid: There are three primary acids in wine — tartaric, malic and citric. Tartaric acid influences the final product’s taste, color and odor.

51. Herbaceous: Herbaceous refers to the herbal aromas found in wine.

52. Racking: Winemaking involves much more than merely harvesting grapes. After the fermentation process completes, racking will need to follow. Racking is when the winemaker moves the product from one vessel to another to separate the wine from the grape skins, seeds, stems, leftover dead yeast cells and other particles that settle to the bottom of the tank.

53. Vinted by: Vinted indicates a finished wine purchased in bulk and then given a cellar treatment before bottling.

54. Lees: During the wine maturing phase, dead yeast cells and other particles remain behind after fermentation.

55. Lingering: When a flavor remains on your tongue after you swallow wine or spit it out after tasting, it is known as lingering.

56. Dense: When you taste a young wine and it is challenging to make out the individual aromas and flavors because it is too “closed” to note each separately, we refer to this as dense wine.

57. Hollow: Wine that lacks flavor depth or is less fruity is hollow.

58. Extract: The contents that make up a wine’s flavor, body and color. Extraction methods are all different, depending on the outcome you want for your wine.

59. Foxy: Foxy wine is a musty or a distinctive note found in some wines. If the foxy aroma is too strong, it can make the wine seem out of balance.

60. Demi-sec: Demi-sec is a French word and directly translated means “half-dry,” but the term describes medium-sweet wines or champagne.

61. Fining: Fining is the method of removing unwanted material from wine while it’s still in the cellar. Some winemakers opt to skip this step because they believe it mutes the wine’s natural flavor and texture.

Food Pairings to Try With Your Favorite Wine

Many definitions can give you a better understanding of the wine tasting terminology we’ve covered above, but what happens when you’re ready to host your wine tasting party and don’t know what food to pair with your wine?

Here are our recommendations of foods to pair these top six wines with when you host your next wine tasting event.
• Chardonnay: As the world’s most popular white wine, chardonnay is best to pair with sushi or shellfish. Choosing a chardonnay depends on your preferred flavor profile, as these white wines come with either a sharp and crispy aroma or a rich and oaky flavor.
• Sauvignon blanc: When pairing sauvignon blanc with the perfect meal, it’s best to look at lighter options. For example, if you plan to serve tapas, a cheese, nut and fruit platter complements the deliciously crisp, delicate white wine.
• Pinot noir: Filled with a mixture of fruity and foresty flavors, pinot noir is well-known for its mushroom aromas and pairs well with earthy ingredients such as a hearty lamb dish or a filet mignon and roasted vegetables.
• Champagne: Champagne is a sparkling wine virtually synonymous with celebrations and famous worldwide for its bubbles. It consists of a blend of three grapes — chardonnay, pinot noir and pinot meunier. Champagne is best alongside salty foods or at weddings with appetizers before the main course.
• Merlot: Loved for its soft textured berry flavors, merlot — which translates to “little blackbird” — comes from red-skinned grapes and is a top-rated wine after cabernet sauvignon. It is also the world’s second most planted grape. Merlot pairs best alongside a wholesome chicken dish with vegetables.
• Cabernet sauvignon:Cabernet sauvignon is the most popular wine and a fan favorite in the United States — as well as the most planted grape in the world! Mixed with bold tannins and fruity flavors, it pairs well with red meat dishes. Cabernet sauvignon will not disappoint alongside a tasty, boldly flavored beef stew.

Take our Wine Pairing Quiz to find the perfect pairing!

Impressing your guests with a wine tasting and pairing will be a walk in the park now that you’ve reviewed our comprehensive glossary of wine tasting terms. We have a full range of wines available to ship directly to your doorstep. Browse our website to mix and match your cases, creating the perfect blend of different wines for your next wine tasting.If you want a boldly flavored wine suitable for nearly every situation, zinfandel wine is what you’ve been looking for. You can get zinfandel wine in a range of styles, from powerful and spice-laden to bright and fruit-forward. While having such a wide variety of zinfandel wines to choose from is exciting, it can be overwhelming. This guide is here to help you navigate the different types of zinfandel and select the perfect bottle for your next get-together.

In the sections below, you’ll discover what kind of wine zinfandel is, what grapes make zinfandel, its most notable characteristics, where it comes from and what type of meals zinfandel pairs well with. Keep reading for a complete zinfandel wine description and helpful tips for enjoying zinfandel to its fullest.
• Where Does Zinfandel Wine Come From?
• What Type of Wine is Zinfandel?
• What Does Zinfandel Wine Taste Like?
• How Do You Serve Zinfandel Wine?
• What Food Goes Well with Zinfandel Wine?
• How Do You Order Zinfandel Wine From Marketview Liquor?

What kind of wine is zinfandel? Zinfandel wine is a variety of black-skinned grape wine that typically produces a robust and flavorful taste. Depending on the process used to make it, zinfandel can be a strong, dry red wine or a lighter, semi-sweet blush-style wine. Zinfandel’s versatility makes it a favorite among wine novices and enthusiasts alike.

Where Does Zinfandel Wine Come From?

Zinfandel wine comes from zinfandel grapes, a thin-skinned and richly colored variety of grape. Zinfandel grapes are susceptible to rot, making adequate draining and planting them on a slope crucial to their success. Typically, zinfandel vines grow in the summer, and their fruit gets harvested as early as mid-August or during a late harvest, which occurs well into the fall.

Once winemakers have harvested zinfandel grapes, they remove the stems and crush the grapes to get them ready to become wine. Then, they leave the mashed-up grapes and their juices to ferment with yeast as the fruit’s natural sugar gets converted to alcohol. During this fermentation period, the vibrant zinfandel grape skins give the wine its deep red color.

After the wine has fully fermented, it gets separated from the zinfandel grape solids by pressing or draining them away. Next, winemakers age it in an oak barrel for a couple of years to intensify its flavors. As the zinfandel wine ages, the winemaker may transfer it from its barrel to intermittently aerate and clarify the wine.

At the conclusion of the barrel-aging process, the vintner bottles the wine and labels it as zinfandel. Some winemakers set aside zinfandel wine to age a bit more in the bottle before placing it on the market.

What Type of Wine Is Zinfandel?

Vintners have used zinfandel grapes to make numerous wine styles since the grapes arrived in the United States, including red and rosé varieties. From dry and sweet red wines to white zinfandel blush wines, zinfandel has something to offer any wine lover. Below, we’ll explore the wide variety of zinfandel wine types.

Naturally, zinfandel is a red wine because it comes from black-skinned zinfandel grapes. Zinfandel grapes’ deep shade results in a richly colored, complex and medium-bodied red wine. Making red zinfandel wines typically requires extreme consideration to give them such a sophisticated taste profile.

Because winemakers ferment red zinfandel wines with great care to preserve integrity, they tend to be extremely dry. Red zinfandel ranks among the highest alcohol content red wines on the market. So if you’re looking for a flavorful and memorable red wine to serve your dinner guests, red zinfandel is a good wine that will stand out and make an impact.

Despite its name, white zinfandel is not a white wine. White zinfandel is a blush wine, which means it is an extremely light red wine that only incorporates some reddish color from grape skins. Also known as rosé, blush wine does not have quite enough red coloring to qualify as red wine, so it gets placed in a category by itself.

Because white zinfandel is a rosé wine, it is a bit lighter than red zinfandel. A bottle of white zinfandel is refreshingly bright, fruity and floral. Like most other rosé wines, white zinfandel is naturally dry. However, most winemakers choose to give their white zinfandel wines a sweeter taste.

White zinfandel is a sweet wine thanks to a method known as stuck fermentation. During stuck fermentation, yeast organisms die before they finish turning the zinfandel grape juice sugars into alcohol. The resulting underfermented zinfandel white wine has a higher residual sugar content than other types of zinfandel wine and tastes more like a dessert wine.

For many people, white zinfandel was the first wine they tried because its low alcohol content, sweet, easy-drinking taste and affordable price make white zinfandel an accessible option for new wine drinkers. While more experienced wine connoisseurs may turn up their noses at white zinfandel’s low-quality production style and lack of complexity, it’s still a widely popular variety of wine. As a result, white zinfandel sales are six times higher than regular red zinfandel sales.

Though red wine gets most of the attention for its cardiovascular health benefits, white zinfandel boasts an equal amount of heart-healthy qualities. Research has found that white wine is equally as effective as red wine in protecting against cardiovascular disease and promoting healthy blood vessels. In this sense, white zinfandel wine is good for you in moderation and when combined with routine exercise.

Zinfandel arrived in America from Europe during the early years of the 19th century. The wine immediately became a hit in the California counties of Napa and Sonoma, both of which are still leading zinfandel wine producers to this day. Despite the wine’s rampant popularity, the grape’s European origins remained a mystery for a long time.

After decades of disagreements and discussion over zinfandel’s origins, Carole Meredith of the University of California at Davis decided to conduct extensive DNA research known as the Zin quest to settle the debate once and for all. The Zin quest lasted from the early 1990s to 2002 before finally concluding that the Californian zinfandel DNA matches Italy’s primitivo wine.

This discovery means that we ultimately have Croatia to thank for zinfandel wine because primitivo wine arrived in Italy from Croatia. As we now know, it’s possible to trace the history of zinfandel wine back to the invention of wine itself when humans began to domesticate wine grapes around 6,000 BCE.

The first grapes used for wine grew along the border of Asia and Europe, and the popular grape variety quickly spread to surrounding sunny areas, including the Mediterranean. These sun-filled climates provided the perfect conditions for growing flavor-packed grapes. The earliest recordings of a zinfandel-like grape come from Croatia, and by the 19th century, Croatian winemaking essentially revolved around zinfandel-related grapes.

More intensive DNA testing by the Zin quest team revealed that the zinfandel grape originated along Croatia’s Dalmatian Coast and most likely migrated to Italy sometime in the 1700s. Italian winemakers quickly took to this delicious variety of grape and began producing primitivo, the Italian version of American zinfandel wine.

Eventually, zinfandel made its way to America in the 1800s and became an instant success. In the 1970s, winemaker Bob Trinchero accidentally created the now-famous white zinfandel blush when a batch of regular red zinfandel wine stopped fermenting prematurely. Instead of throwing the wine out, Trinchero bottled and sold it. The lighter zinfandel instantly became a hit among the 1970s white wine-drinking American consumer base.

Today, California’s Sonoma County boasts about 5,200 acres of zinfandel vineyards, which means zinfandel accounts for approximately 12% of the county’s red wine grape acreage. Overall, zinfandel wine’s complicated past led to a triumphant present and points toward a promising future.

Where Are Zinfandel Wines From?

While zinfandel grapes grow successfully in many places, California is the most notable hotspot for zinfandel wine. Zinfandel is one of the most popular wine grapes in California, especially along the central coast and in northern California. Zinfandel grapes are perfect for the coastal California climate because the vines like warm, sunny days without too much intense heat.

Over the years, California vintners have perfected the art of harvesting zinfandel grapes and producing world-class wine. Today, more than 10% of California’s vineyards are growing zinfandel grapes. While most wine aficionados view red zinfandel as a more sophisticated wine, California wineries produce approximately six times more bottles of white zinfandel than regular zinfandel.

These are the top five regions in California for producing high-quality zinfandel wine:

Though zinfandel is essentially the signature wine of the United States, you can still get a good bottle of zinfandel abroad. For example, Nashik — India’s most prolific wine-producing region, located northeast of Mumbai — makes a sophisticated and flavorful zinfandel that could rival anything put out by California.

Of course, there’s also the complicated detail that primitivo is an identical wine to zinfandel that primarily comes from Italy. The two wines are so similar that some Italian wine producers marketed their primitivo as zinfandel to cash in on the booming American zinfandel wine market. Nowadays, some Californian winemakers have begun labeling their zinfandel wines as primitivo to appeal to Italian wine buyers.

Because the two wines are virtually interchangeable, Puglia, Italy — which makes the world’s most popular primitivo — often earns a top spot on any list of zinfandel wine producers. If you want a good zinfandel or primitivo wine, any bottle from a southern Italian region will live up to your expectations.

Other places outside the U.S. that grow zinfandel grapes include South Africa and Australia. Both countries have small pockets of zinfandel vineyards, but neither are notable producers of the wine. In each of these nations, you can find the wine bottled as both zinfandel and primitivo.

What Are the Best Zinfandel Wines?

With so many great zinfandel regions to choose from, it can be challenging to know which bottle will be best. A simple tip is to look for a zinfandel from a high-elevation area like the California regions of El Dorado County and Howell Mountain. High-elevation zinfandels typically have more richness and savory intensity.

What Does Zinfandel Wine Taste Like?

Red zinfandel’s taste is rich and complex. Zinfandel’s bold flavors come from the wine’s moderate tannin and high acidity. In general, a bottle of red zinfandel will have a higher alcohol level than most wines, ranging from about 13 to 17% ABV. This higher alcohol content gives zinfandel an oily texture and a bolder body than most red wines. Typically, red zinfandel is medium-bodied, depending on the techniques used to produce it.

The most notable flavors of red zinfandel are rich, jammy fruits like blueberry, raspberry, blackberry, cherry and plum, along with spices like licorice, cinnamon and black pepper. A smoky finish rounds out the red zinfandel wine taste description. While your first taste of zinfandel will be an explosion of sweet candied fruitiness, you’ll soon notice a subtle spice and tobacco-like aftertaste.

Fuller zinfandel wines will have a bolder pop of spice, whereas lighter zinfandel wines will be a bit brighter and more fruit-forward. A fuller zinfandel will also feature firm tannins, a characteristic that lighter versions of zinfandel do not have.

While white zinfandel comes from the same grape, this lighter wine offers a slightly different flavor profile. This lighter-hued and lighter-bodied wine comes with fewer tannins and a lower alcohol level, which means the wine is less dry. Due to this lack of bitterness, white zinfandel wine is sweet and easy to sip.

Many novice wine drinkers enjoy white zinfandel because it is a bit less complex than most wines. White zinfandel usually includes the sweet flavors of strawberry, cherry and citrus fruits, along with some underlying floral notes. The easy-drinking and light-bodied nature of white zinfandel make it a quaffable wine that’s bound to please nearly palate.

To sum it up, these are the most notable qualities of red zinfandel wine.
• Fruit flavors: Fresh strawberry, raspberry, blackberry, melon and citrus fruits, such as lemon, lime and orange

Now that you’ve learned everything you need to know about zinfandel’s taste and how to choose a high-quality bottle, all that’s left is learning how to serve it. This section will go over all the essentials, including how to serve a glass of zinfandel and your best zinfandel wine food pairing options.

When serving zinfandel wine, you want to moderately chill it, but not make it overly cold. Ideally, you should chill zinfandel wine to about 57 to 60 degrees Fahrenheit before serving. To achieve this temperature, try to store your bottle of zinfandel at 55 degrees Fahrenheit. For the best zinfandel sipping experience, pour the wine into a glass with a small bowl and a slightly smaller opening.

What Food Goes Well With Zinfandel Wine?

Whether you’re serving zinfandel at your next dinner party or want to order a glass at a restaurant, you need to know which foods are the perfect partner for zinfandel. Pairing zinfandel can enhance your meal by bringing out the flavors of your wine and food. You’ll want to have your zinfandel alongside foods that complement the wine’s naturally rich flavors without overpowering them.

In general, red zinfandel wine pairs well with boldly flavored foods like pizza, sausage and peppers, lasagna and other kinds of pasta with red sauce. The dryness, spicy character and sweet fruity flavors of red zinfandel also make it an outstanding match for strongly spiced foods like curry and barbecue dishes. If you’re cooking the meal you plan to pair with red zinfandel, try to identify the spices you taste in the wine and sprinkle them into your sauce.

Fuller-bodied red zinfandel also goes well with nearly any meat. From pork and poultry to lamb and game, red zinfandel wine’s light sweetness works nicely with various cuts of meat. In particular, zinfandel wine pairs well with barbecued or grilled meats, such as pork chops, ribs or brisket. For those who don’t eat meat, red zinfandel goes perfectly with roasted, richly flavored vegetables, such as tomatoes and beets.

More specifically, try cooking with the following foods and spices to create the perfect zinfandel wine pairing.
• Meat: Lighter meats like turkey, quail, veal, pork, bacon and ham, as well as barbecued red meats and lamb
• Cheese: Hard and richly flavored cheese from cows or sheep, including Manchego, bandage-wrapped cheddar, Swiss and Pecorino Romano
• Fruits and vegetables: Flavorful fruits and veggies like peaches, apricot, cranberries, spiced apple, roasted tomatoes, red peppers, roasted squash and caramelized onion, which will bring out the natural fruitiness in zinfandel wine

Lighter white zinfandel wine also pairs well with a range of savory foods. Similar to red zinfandel, white zinfandel goes excellently with the spices found in most Cajun, Asian and barbecue recipes because the wine’s sweetness balances out the food’s spiciness. Again, try to serve dishes that bring out the naturally occurring flavors already found in the white zinfandel.

However, because white zinfandel is a bit sweeter and less dry than red zinfandel, a glass of white zinfandel can be better for milder dishes with cream sauces and lighter meats like fish. White zinfandel’s less acidic nature also makes the wine suitable for highly acidic foods, such as citrus fruit.

Incorporate some of these elements into your meal if you plan on having white zinfandel.
• Spices and herbs: Creole or tandoori spices, za’atar, nutmeg and clove
• Cheese: Mild cheeses, such as creamy Havarti, Emmental, brie and ricotta
• Fruits and vegetables: Citrus fruits, such as oranges, lemon and lime, and highly acidic vegetables like tomatoes, arugula, artichokes and radishes

If you’re ready to give this American staple a try, find the perfect zinfandel wine for you at Marketview Liquor. We offer a wide range of red and white zinfandel wines from some of the top zinfandel-producing regions. Our inventory of zinfandel wines includes bottles from Sonoma County, Napa Valley, Amador County and more.

Whether you’re looking for a sophisticated red zinfandel or a light and refreshing white zinfandel, we’ve got you covered. Our zinfandel wines are high-quality and affordable, with some bottles available for less than $5. It’s easy to order our wines online, and you can get your zinfandel shipped to you anywhere in the United States.

Find your new favorite wine today by browsing the extensive selection of zinfandel wines at Marketview Liquor.Riesling is a delightfully aromatic and elegant wine that too often gets overlooked. This wine’s bold and delicious flavor has remained one of the wine world’s best-kept secrets for the past few decades. But riesling’s popularity has been steadily growing as wine lovers everywhere begin to recognize riesling’s unique flavor and versatility. If you want a wine that’s refreshing and on-trend, riesling is your new best friend.

To help you find the perfect bottle for your tastes, we’ve put together this ultimate riesling guide. We’ll answer all of your most pressing riesling questions, from, “What kind of wine is riesling?” and the types of Riesling wine available to what foods riesling wine pairs well with. Find out whether Riesling is a dry or sweet wine and what occasions riesling is a good wine for below!
• What are the Different Types of Riesling Wine?
• Where Does Riesling Wine Come From?
• What Does Riesling Wine Taste Like?
• How Do You Serve Riesling White Wine?

How Do You Pronounce Riesling?

Before diving into what kind of wine riesling is, let’s start with the basics of how to pronounce “riesling” wine. According to Merriam-Webster, you can pronounce riesling as “reez-ling” or “res-ling” with the emphasis always on the first syllable. Now that you can pronounce riesling, you’re ready to learn more about the details of the wine.

Riesling is a white wine made from a single type of grape originally grown in Germany. The word “riesling” also refers to just the grape in German.

Is Riesling a Sweet Wine, or Is Riesling a Dry Wine?

The white wine made from riesling grapes can be quite diverse. From dry to sweet, there are a great variety of riesling wines. Traditionally, riesling wine is sweet because the added sweetness is necessary to counteract the naturally high acidity of the grapes. This combination creates a beautiful balance of flavors.

While most riesling wines tend to fall on the sweeter side of the spectrum, many winemakers also produce bottles of dry riesling these days. Dry riesling is not as sweet and often appeals more to those who are partial to leaner-tasting wines.

As we just learned above, riesling wine comes in a variety of styles. But wine consumers often associate riesling with sweetness because the most famous German rieslings are remarkably sweet. The majority of riesling wines produced by other countries are either dry or off-dry. Nowadays, even Germany puts out many dryer-style riesling wines.

Although many people assume that all riesling wines are sweet, the flavor profile of riesling wine covers a wide range of possibilities. If you shy away from trying riesling because you don’t like wines that are too sweet, consider exploring the numerous dry riesling wines on the market.

So when is riesling a dessert wine, and when is riesling a dry white wine? While having options is nice, the many different styles and sweetness levels of riesling can be overwhelming. Wine producers recognize the average consumer’s confusion or stress over a wine’s sugar content, so they created a breakdown of sweetness to help guide your selection.

Essentially, all you need to remember is that “trocken” means dry. Knowing this helpful tidbit allows you to choose a dry riesling or steer clear and grab a sweeter bottle. You can also look for other specific German phrases, like these:

You can also rely on a bottle’s alcohol content to tell you whether the wine is dry or sweet. Typically, drier wines have a higher alcohol content than sweeter wines because a lower alcohol content means less sugar was converted to alcohol. Therefore, buying a bottle with a lower alcohol by volume (ABV) ensures you’re getting something sweet.

Along with regular riesling wine, you can also get sparkling riesling, which is an even brighter and more effervescent version of the already crisp white wine. As a highly acidic wine, riesling is exceedingly well-suited to being made bubbly. A sparkling riesling wine is refreshing and satisfying on a warm summer day.

As a German wine, riesling gets broken down into different categories according to its quality. First, the wine gets labeled as a table wine or quality wine. Most table wine does not even make it out of Germany and accounts for very little of the country’s overall wine production. Quality riesling wine gets further broken down into two additional categories — “Qualitätswein” and “Prädikatswein.”

Qualitätswein is an improvement on table wine because it focuses on standards and excellence. To qualify as Qualitätswein, a riesling wine must come from one of the 13 designated wine-growing regions of Germany, collectively known as “Anbaugebieten,” and the specific region must be indicated on the bottle’s label.

These grapes are typically harvested at a lower ripeness and allowed to go through chaptalization, the process of adding sugar to the nonfermented grape juice to boost the wine’s alcohol content. A riesling wine must reach at least 7% ABV to be classified as Qualitätswein. In general, Qualitätswein wines range from bone-dry to semi-sweet.

Prädikatswein is a step up from Qualitätswein and refers to high-quality wines with specific attributes. This classification is reserved for Germany’s top-tier wines, whether they be completely dry, half-dry, semi-sweet or super sweet dessert wines. Prädikatswein wines must come from one of the approved German wine regions and are not permitted to go through chaptalization.

What Are the Best Riesling Wines?

While a Prädikatswein is the highest level of riesling wine, you can find a specific type of Prädikatswein to suit your taste in wine or a certain occasion. A Prädikatswein’s classification depends on the ripeness of its grapes at the time of picking, which directly affects the wine’s sweetness.

A bottle of Prädikatswein will fall into one of the following sub-categories according to the ripeness of its grapes:
• Kabinett: This type of riesling is the lightest style of Prädikatswein and comes from fully ripened grapes. Kabinett can range from dry to medium-sweet.
• Spatlese: Spatlese is made from ripe grapes picked during late harvest. This wine can also be dry to medium-sweet.
• Auslese: This riesling is made with specially selected bunches of very ripe grapes. While Auslese can be dry, it is most often semi-sweet or sweet.
• Beerenauslese: This kind of riesling comes from individually chosen overripe grapes that only produce sweet dessert wines. Most of the grapes used for Beerenauslese have achieved noble rot, which means a gray fungus called botrytis has concentrated the grapes’ sugars by sucking the water from them.
• Trockenbeerenauslese: This very sweet and rare riesling dessert wine is made from fully “botrytized” grapes. These overripe grapes create a complex and saccharine wine suitable for those with high-end tastes.
• Eiswein: This riesling wine uses naturally frozen grapes that produce concentrated, sugar-rich juices. The grapes need to be frozen on the vine and pressed into wine while still in a solid-state.

Riesling wine’s history goes all the way back to the Rhine wine region of Germany, which is where the first reference of wine was recorded by Count John IV of Katzenelnbogen in 1435. Since the first riesling grapes were planted, riesling wine has been a staple of German nobility. The high nobles of Germany would even take bottles of riesling with them on their conquests and business dealings throughout Europe.

Riesling wine’s popularity among German nobility resulted in cases of the coveted wine being stockpiled in cellars across the country. Like Chardonnay, riesling is one of those rare white wines that ages well and can be most enjoyed dozens of years after bottling. Because riesling wine does age well, it is perfect for storing in casks.

Riesling wine’s surprising ability to age well is largely attributable to its strong acidity and high levels of antioxidants. A vine of riesling grapes will retain a high amount of acidity even after reaching full maturity, producing an acidic wine with an excellent taste. Specifically, riesling wines made in a sweeter style do exceptionally well when aged for decades.

Although riesling wine was a hot commodity throughout history, it began to fade into obscurity gradually. By the 1980s, drier wine styles were in vogue and riesling had become a wine connoisseur’s secret. But an elegant and sophisticated gem of a wine like riesling can’t stay hidden for long.

In the 1990s, riesling started to rise in popularity again as wine lovers everywhere rediscovered the aromatic wine. By 1996, riesling had reclaimed its title as Germany’s most widely planted grape. These days, riesling wine remains highly regarded as a fine white wine suitable for classy occasions or sipping casually.

Riesling wine starts with riesling grapes, which is a type of grape that has an extraordinary resistance to cold. As a cold-resistant crop, riesling grapes are mainly grown in wine areas with cold climates. Riesling grapes’ resilience to cold temperatures doesn’t mean they don’t require particular conditions to produce the best results. But the grapes’ quality will not be impacted by the vine’s abundancy.

Because a riesling vine can withstand frost in the winter, its grapes ripen later than most vines. This slow ripening process allows the grapes to develop more intense flavors and an elegant aroma while maintaining their acidity. Once the grapes are finally harvested in late autumn, they can be used to make wine.

Riesling grapes are fermented like most wine varieties with a mixture of yeast and a bit of sugar to convert the grapes’ natural sugars into alcohol. After fermentation, nearly all riesling wines are immediately bottled. Select styles of riesling wine include maturation in a barrel. Over time, the riesling develops its character, defining its aromas and flavors as it ages on the shelf.

Where Does Riesling Wine Come From?

As the birthplace of riesling grapes and a cooler climate, Germany puts out what many consider the best riesling wines worldwide. The Mosel-Saar-Ruwer region, in particular, provides the perfect combination of chilly temperatures and sunlight. Although riesling grapes perform best in cold climates and sunny areas, the popularity of riesling wine has led to riesling grapes being planted around the globe.

Along with Germany, here are some of the world’s top regions for growing riesling grapes:
• France: Across Germany’s French border, riesling has become a primary product of the Alsace region. Most riesling wines from this region are medium- to full-bodied and contain minimal residual sugar. When the conditions are right, Alsace also bottles sweet riesling wines.
• Austria: This small European country is renowned for its top-quality riesling wines. While Austria produces rieslings in a range of sweetness levels, most of their bottles are either extremely sweet or dry.
• South Australia: Riesling grapes also thrive outside of Europe. In South Australia, riesling grows well in the Clare and Eden Valleys. The wines these riesling grapes produce are typically bone-dry.
• The United States: In North America, riesling grapes grow on both coasts. In New York, riesling has found a home in the deep glacial sections of the Finger Lakes region. Across the country in Washington, riesling wine is made in a dry style and celebrated for its ripe stone fruit flavors.

What Does Riesling Wine Taste Like?

The tasting experience of riesling starts with the intense aromas rising from your glass, even when the wine is ice cold. Riesling wine’s aromas are primarily orchard fruits, such as nectarine, honey-crisp apple, pear and apricot. In addition to refreshing fruits, other soothing scents like jasmine, honeycomb or lime zest may waft from your riesling.

Along with these subtle scents, you will also experience a more noticeable aroma, like petrol or petroleum wax. This distinct scent is due to a natural compound known as TDN that develops as riesling wine ages. Depending on your preferences, riesling’s signature petrol note may be a positive or negative attribute.

As far as taste, riesling wine has a high acidity comparable to the acidity levels found in lemonade. This acidity goes well with the wine’s typical citrus flavors and can be mellowed out by its floral undertones. Younger riesling wines — produced with unripe grapes — tend to develop more of the sour fruity notes like green apple, lime and lemon, along with flowery aromas like chamomile, jasmine, hawthorn and wisteria.

Riesling wine made with ripe grapes is filled with the rounder and subtler aromas of peach, pear, grapefruit, apple, apricot and other fruits. Sweet riesling wines will have stronger tastes of apricot and peach, while dry rieslings will have more intense notes of apple and grapefruit.

Some sweet riesling dessert wines, particularly those made with botrytized grapes, can develop elegant spicy aromas of ginger, cinnamon and anise. Riesling wines that are given more time to age and refine themselves often pick up hints of aromatic honey, honeybee wax and butter. While these sophisticated aromas may seem strange, they are surprisingly pleasing, offering a bit of extra style to the wine.

Vintage sweet rieslings also commonly include aromas of candied apricot, fruit jam, dried fruits, almond, walnut and moss. Although winemakers rarely age riesling wines in barrels, doing so can give the wine classic barrel aromas, including notes of toasted wood, vanilla and chocolate.

In summary, these are the most common riesling wine characteristics you’ll see:
• Fruit flavors: Riesling wines have a wide range of fruity flavors, including nectarine, apricot, peach, pineapple, apple, pear, lemon and lime.
• Additional aromas: Along with fruity notes, riesling has other flowery or earthy flavors like jasmine, citrus blossom, ginger, honey, honeycomb, beeswax and rubber.
• Aged flavors: An aged riesling will have a slight smell of petrol, diesel or lanolin.
• Alcohol content: The alcohol content in riesling wine is generally low, making it a pleasant wine to drink even in larger quantities.
• Acidity: Riesling wine usually has high acidity levels, giving it a crisper and more tart taste. Riesling’s high acidity also allows the wine to mature in its bottle for decades without going bad despite its low alcohol content.

What Is the Alcohol Content of Riesling Wine?

Most Riesling wines have an alcohol content of 8-12.5% ABV. The alcohol content depends on the climate where the wine is made. Riesling wine from a cold region in Germany will likely have lower alcohol content than Riesling wine from a warm region in California.

Riesling wines with lower alcohol content are often lighter and more refreshing. Riesling wines with higher alcohol content are typically richer and more indulgent.

As a white wine, riesling should be enjoyed at a “fridge cold” temperature — about 45 to 50 degrees Fahrenheit. Serving riesling wine cold but not too cold will lift the wine’s delicate aromas and acidity without muting its flavors. To achieve this balance, let your riesling sit in the fridge for about two hours and try to serve the wine directly from the fridge to your guests’ glasses.

What to Eat With Riesling Wine

Riesling is a great fine dining wine because it pairs well with virtually all food types. Although a glass of riesling goes with just about anything, this wine really shines alongside spicy foods. Riesling’s naturally high acidity refreshes the palate, while the wine’s residual sugar helps to tame potent spices.

While riesling pairs well with all sorts of spicy foods, the wine’s versatility makes it the perfect partner for a wide range of cuisine. Check out some of the most popular riesling food pairings:
• Herbs and spices: Highly aromatic herbs and spices, including cayenne pepper, ginger, cinnamon, allspice, clove, turmeric, curry powder, shallots, basil, sesame and rice vinegar
• Vegetables: Roasted veggies with a natural sweetness, such as red onion, bell peppers, squash, carrots and eggplant

More specifically, here are some of the best riesling wine food pairing options according to the type of riesling you prefer:
• Dry: A dry riesling pairs exceptionally well with seafood and shellfish because the mineral notes in the wine blend seamlessly with salty, fishy flavors. Consider having a glass of dry riesling the next time you have salmon, swordfish, cod, sushi or other raw fish.
• Half-dry: A slightly less dry riesling wine matches flawlessly with chicken and other poultry and white meats. Soft cow’s milk cheeses, truffle cream and goat cheese also complement half-dry rieslings, making it a great wine to have with stuffed chicken, chicken Alfredo or risotto.
• Sparkling: In general, sparkling riesling makes an excellent aperitif. A fresh sparkling riesling goes wonderfully with sea finger foods, such as scallops, clams and mollusks.
• Sweet: A sweet riesling makes a stunning dessert wine, especially when enjoyed alongside a fruit-based dessert like strawberry shortcake or lemon tarts and cakes. Late-harvest rieslings that are particularly sweet also go well with sugary desserts like cookies and brownies.

In addition to pairing well with a wide variety of food, riesling wine is good for cooking. The wine’s delicate aroma of citrus fruits and flowers gets brought out even more by the cooking process. In particular, riesling wine stands out when making flaky fish dishes, baking sweet desserts or poaching fruit.

If you’re looking for a good bottle of riesling, check out the extensive selection of riesling wines from Marketview Liquor. We offer high-quality riesling wines from premier regions online and deliver orders right to your door, making your wine shopping easy and stress-free. Whether you’re interested in a bone-dry riesling or a sugary-sweet dessert riesling, you can find it at Marketview Liquor!Charcuterie boards are the perfect item to serve at get-togethers, dinners and parties, whether it’s a formal dinner party or a casual meeting of friends and family. You can place any selection of meats and cheeses on plates, boards or other serving surfaces. With just a little careful arrangement, you can create something tasty and visually appealing.

A charcuterie board can be served alone as a main dish or as an appetizer. While cheeses and meats are traditional choices, you can also customize charcuterie boards with vegetables, dips and sauces, nuts, fruits and even seafood.

What Wine Is Good With Cheese and Charcuterie?

One reason charcuterie boards are so popular at parties and dinners is because they pair beautifully with wine — but not every wine.

When working on wine and charcuterie pairings, consider the following:
• Acidity: The high fat and salt content of cured meats and cheeses mean a crisp wine with high acidity and citrus will pair well.
• Regionality: Determine where your cured meats and cheeses come from when looking for a wine pairing for cheese and charcuterie. If you have a plate of French cheeses, for instance, look for French wines from the same region. If you have Italian cured meats, consider a red Italian wine.
• Spice: If you are serving spicy cheeses and meats, consider pairing fruity and light wines or spicy wines so the spice is not overwhelmed.
• Variety: Ultimately, wines that pair well with charcuterie and cheese depend on personal choice. Consider serving a selection of red and white wines so each guest can experiment with different pairings and options. You can even arrange a small tasting by serving wine in small tasting glasses.

When considering food and wine pairing for charcuterie boards, avoid anything with complex notes. The strong flavors of cheese and meats can clash with more structured wines, and anything complex can be overpowered.

Find the Right Cheese and Charcuterie Wine Pairing With Marketview Liquor

Charcuterie and wine pairings give you lots of options for creativity. Ultimately, it is up to your tastes. You can select the wines you enjoy with different meats and cheeses.

With Marketview Liquor, you get a large selection of wine and the convenience of online ordering, so you can always plan for your next party or dinner without leaving home. Plus, since Marketview Liquor delivers right to your door, you’ll save time and can put more effort toward making your dinner or family get together one to remember.While once relatively unknown, malbec wine is now a popular choice that appeals to those seeking an easy-to-drink, full-bodied red wine. A bottle of malbec is an excellent option whether you’re new to wine or a knowledgeable enthusiast. Malbec wines offer straightforward, yet deep, flavor profiles with a moderate level of tannins that excite the palate.

Malbec grapes thrive in Argentina’s climate, which has led to the production of high-quality wines at affordable prices. You can purchase premium malbecs at a $10 to $20 price point that will surprise wine lovers with complex flavors. Malbec wines’ taste profile depends on the region and how ripe the grapes are when picked. Malbec wine characteristics typically include a full-bodied red wine that is almost jammy and tastes like dark fruits such as cherries or blackberries with spice, leather or tobacco notes. Some lower-altitude Argentinian malbecs are more medium-bodied, so if you prefer a less intense wine, you can still find great malbecs that appeal to your tastes.

If you want to know more about malbec wine, we’ve created a comprehensive guide for you to detail the taste, pairings and history of the wine.
• What Does Malbec Wine Taste Like?

Winemakers create malbec wine by using grapes of the same name. What type of wine is malbec? It’s becoming one of the most popular full-bodied reds due to its affordability and versatility. Malbec wines’ colors vary from dark ruby red to bright violet. Malbecs are a reliable choice for those seeking a wine that can pair well with most foods and spices. If you’re having a party, you’ll find most of your guests will enjoy a glass of malbec. It’s a wine loved by the masses! You can typically find high-quality options at lower price points when purchasing a malbec than many other red wines.

Malbec has a medium-high alcohol content that ranges from 13.5 to 15% ABV. These percentages are a standard range for most dry reds, including pinot noir, cabernet sauvignon and merlot.

Malbec wines serve as great crowd-pleasers because most varieties have moderate tannin levels and are soft on the palate. It’s an approachable wine that most people will enjoy.

What Does Malbec Wine Taste Like?

The characteristics of malbec wines are lush with deep flavors of dark fruits, velvet texture and spice. What is a malbec wine like? Malbec has a moderate level of tannins — more than a pinot noir, but less than a cabernet sauvignon. The tannin levels found in malbec make it an excellent wine to try if you’re new to reds and are looking to ease into the dry mouthfeel tannins provide. It’s not an overpowering wine, and it has a relatively short finish that quickly fades after you swallow.

The terroir of the land where the grapes grow significantly impacts a malbec wine’s flavor profile. What kind of wine is malbec? It is typically a full-bodied red. You can find more fruit-forward malbecs with fewer tannins from grapes that grow in Argentina’s lower elevations. When malbec grapes grow in the high altitudes of the Andes, they develop thicker skins and become more intense, providing greater complexity and higher tannin levels while also giving cherry, raspberry and floral notes.

French malbecs grow at a much lower altitude, but the limestone present in the ground creates a more tannin-rich wine with earthier tones. You’ll find that most malbecs from France are less jammy than those from Argentina.

The wine’s taste varies based on the malbec wine region the grapes come from, due to factors like altitude, temperature, rainfall and sun exposure. The land’s terroir also heavily influences the characteristics of malbec wine. You should expect a malbec from France to taste different than one from Argentina, despite coming from the same grape variety. Malbec grapes also grow in the United States, Chile, South Africa and Australia, to a lesser extent.

There are 100,000 acres of malbec planted globally, and an impressive 75% of the grapes come from Argentina. Argentinian vineyards produce so much malbec because the grape responds well to the country’s climate and altitude.

Argentinian malbec is strong and jammy, with dark fruits like plum, cherry and blackberry at the forefront. You can also taste coffee, chocolate and leather. A sweet tobacco finish will be notable if the wine spends more than 10 months aging in oak.

Most Argentinian malbec comes from the Mendoza region, which is sunny and dry for most of the year. The grapes grow at a high altitude in the Andes. The temperature shifts from hot in the day to cold at night, allowing the grapes to ripen and slowly develop balanced acidity and sugar levels to create a vivid and elegant wine.

The French malbec primarily grows in the southwest town of Cahors, where it’s known as côt noir. Malbec grown in France is savory and tart, different than its often sweeter Argentinian counterpart. Its taste is more leather-forward with notes of black currant, pepper and spices. The French varietal also has higher acidity and typically experiences longer aging periods, resulting in more robust tobacco notes.

French malbecs produced in Cahors benefit from the region’s soil rich with limestone. Calcium found in limestone aids in malbec grapes maintaining acidity longer into the growing cycle, which is evident in the taste as robust coffee, tobacco and spice notes develop.

The malbec is one of only six wines vintners can legally include in Bordeaux blends. French vineyards historically produced malbec to use in blends, but pivoted to creating malbec as a stand-alone wine after Argentinian malbecs saw gains in popularity.

The malbec is a well-known feature of many red blends, such as the French Bordeaux. In Argentina, vineyards blend malbecs with the regional bonarda grape. A malbec-syrah blend is another combination that has gained popularity in recent years.

Some winemakers create rosé wine with malbec grapes. The process of making rosé involves leaving the skins on the grapes for only a short time. With the grape skins removed, the wine won’t absorb malbec’s typical dark purple hues, coming out a light pink color instead. Rosé made from malbec has fewer tannins and is a light, crisp wine.

In Argentina, locals organize days where groups gather to harvest the grapes from February to April. The growing season in France is in the warmer months, and the grapes are ready in late summer and early fall. Malbec grapes need to fully ripen on the vine because they won’t continue to ripen after harvesting.

The grapes are ripe and ready for harvest when they are a rich, inky purple color, juicy and plump. Vintners typically harvest grapes by cutting off the stem, not by picking individual grapes.

After harvesting, you can store the grapes for up to six weeks in a dry, dark and cool cellar. Vineyards rarely share their malbec wine recipes. However, winemakers create wine using either the whole stem with clusters of grapes or by removing the stems and only using individual grapes. Adding the stem results in a wine that is richer and higher in tannins.

Next, winemakers add yeast to the grapes to begin the fermentation process, which lasts an average of five to 21 days. Malbec wine gains its signature ruby red color from the grape skins, so the skins remain on the fruit throughout the fermentation process, and winemakers need to keep them submerged because grapes float. They do this by using a tool to push the fruit down or pumping the wine over the top.

Vintners then drain the wine from the fermentation barrels and use a press to squeeze any remaining liquid out of the grapes. After the initial fermentation, a process called malolactic fermentation takes place. A microbe, Oenoccocus oeni, digests the malic acid found in wine and converts it into the gentler lactic acid. This acid conversion leads to red wine having the velvet mouthfeel you may be familiar with.

Winemakers then age the wine in either metal tanks or oak barrels. If aged in oak, the malbec will absorb additional notes of vanilla, clove and smoke. As wine ages, it becomes smoother and less astringent.

After aging, the wine goes through a filtering and clarification process before bottling. Winemakers may choose to have specific malbec varieties continue aging once in the bottle. Now, it’s ready for consumption!

Malbec grapes originated in France, but failed to thrive in the cooler climate. The thin-skinned black grape is sensitive to frost, mildew, root rot and pests. The malbec requires ideal growing conditions to produce bountiful harvests. French vineyards often disregarded the malbec, instead choosing to focus on grapes that consistently performed well. Malbec grapes were once typical in France’s Bordeaux region, but a severe frost in 1956 killed over 75% of the vines, and vintners chose to plant hardier varietals to replace the dead vines.

The governor of Mendoza, Argentina, commissioned a French botanist named Michel Pouget to develop the Argentinian wine industry. In 1853, Pouget planted several French grape varietals in Argentina, then observed which ones responded best to the country’s climate and terroir. The malbec grew well in the country’s high altitudes, and it’s now the most widely planted grape in Argentina. Pouget’s introduction of malbec to Argentina boosted the country’s economy and helped turn Argentina into one of the world’s largest wine producers.

However, malbec has not always been a trendy wine. In the mid-20th century, Argentina’s economy suffered due to issues with the government. During this economic downturn, many vineyards removed malbec vines and replaced them with cheaper-to-grow grapes to stay afloat. Argentinian wine went through another revival period in the 1990s, when modern malbec wine history begins. The malbec wine produced in the mid-to-late ’90s gained international attention and acclaim.

Argentinian malbec gained access to the American market starting in the early 2000s, and from there, it quickly became a household name. It’s an accessible wine, sporting a low cost and an appealing, straightforward taste.

You will get the most out of the malbec wine flavor profile by serving it between 59 and 64 degrees Fahrenheit. If you store your wine at room temperature, you can put a bottle of malbec in the refrigerator for about 30 minutes to bring the temperature down to its ideal serving point. If your malbec is in a wine cellar or wine fridge, you can serve it directly.

It’s best to serve malbec in a Bordeaux wine glass, a tall glass with a large bowl that narrows toward the top. The shape works to trap the wine’s aroma and flavor to give you the best sensory experience.

Aerating wine isn’t necessary, but if you prefer, you can transfer the malbec from the bottle into a decanter to give it a chance to “breathe” for around an hour. Exposing the wine to air will soften tannins and help bring the fruit flavors forward.

As a full-bodied red, malbec pairs well with flavorful meals and can stand up against spicy foods, lean red meats, darker poultry, savory cheeses and roasted vegetables. Here, we’ve created a guide that will help you decide how to incorporate a malbec wine pairing with food.

Malbec has a short finish compared to other full-bodied red wines, so it’s well suited to pair with leaner red meats and lighter meats like pork and turkey. Meats that malbec goes well with are:

Malbec goes well with many spices and herbs that have an earthy or smoky taste. Some spice and herb pairings are:

Soft to semi-firm and aged or molded cheeses pair well with a malbec. Ideally, the cheese shouldn’t have a long aftertaste because malbecs have a short finish. Some specific cheeses to couple with malbec are:

Hearty vegetables and starches are ideal for pairing with a malbec. Here are some great vegetarian options:

After purchasing some bottles of malbec, there are a few things to consider to ensure it stays fresh until you’re ready to drink it.

You should store red wine at a temperature between 54 and 66 degrees Fahrenheit. Higher or lower temperatures can harm the wine, and it may taste differently than intended if stored outside of this range. Household refrigerators operate at too cool a temperature to safely store wine.

Wherever you store your wine, ensure that area does not frequently experience temperature changes. Temperature fluctuations can damage your wine and lead to a deterioration in quality, so it’s vital to maintain a consistent temperature. The cork can expand or contract whenever temperatures swing, leading to air entering the bottle or wine escaping the bottle.

If you don’t have access to a wine cellar or wine cooler, you can keep your bottles in any area of your home that is dark and cool. Many people find it convenient to keep their wine in basements, semi-heated garages or cool closets. The ideal humidity level to store wine is between 60 and 68%. At levels lower than this, the cork can dry out. At higher levels, the labels may start to peel off the bottles, making them hard to identify.

The room must be dark, so the bottles won’t face light exposure, which can cause light strike. This phenomenon occurs when UV rays from the sun penetrate a bottle of wine and cause molecules present in all wines to interact, forming sulfur compounds. We can smell even a minute amount of these sulfur compounds, and it makes the wine taste very off-putting, effectively ruining it. Light strike can happen quickly — it only takes three hours to impact clear bottles and around 18 hours to affect wine in green bottles.

Store wine bottles horizontally, lying on their sides, to keep the corks moist. If the cork dries out, the wine can age poorly and suffer a decrease in quality. Horizontal storage is crucial if you plan on storing your wine for several years.

How long does malbec wine last? Whether you’re opening your new bottles right away or keeping some stored away, it’s essential to know how long your wine will maintain its high-quality taste and texture.

If you’re an aspiring wine collector, malbec is an excellent choice because many varieties can last in storage for up to 20 years. The more full-bodied and robust types, often from France, can easily remain stable for 20 years if you keep the bottles in an ideal temperature and storage area. Sweeter varieties and those with a lower alcohol percentage will retain their quality for at least 10 years. Like those from France, wines with higher tannins will outlast wines with a lower tannin concentration, such as many Argentinian varieties. When complex wines age, subtle notes and flavors will become more prominent with time.

It’s essential to note that most wines you purchase come pre-aged and are ready to drink as soon as you receive them. It shouldn’t be necessary for you to age them yourself, but if you find a wine you love and want to make sure you have plenty in reserve, a malbec will keep well in storage.

After opening a full-bodied red like a malbec, you can expect it to last around four days after opening the bottle with proper storage. It’s vital to recork it as soon as possible after pouring to extend an opened bottle’s shelf life. You can use the original cork or a rubber wine stopper to reseal the bottle. A small piece of waxed paper wrapped around the cork will create a more durable seal and prevent any cork from falling into the wine. You can also transfer the remaining wine into a smaller bottle to reduce the amount of air exposure, which may give you an extra day before it starts to go flat.

If you’re looking to experience the diverse malbec wine flavor profile, Marketview Liquor has selections from all the premier malbec growing regions. Malbec is a wine that appeals to the masses because it’s easy to drink, yet complex and exciting to experience. If you’re hosting a dinner party, you’ll find that malbec wine food pairings will elevate the meal.

Browse our vast offerings of malbec online today and have it shipped directly to your front door. At Marketview Liquor, we pride ourselves on offering premium wine from all over the world at affordable prices. Whether you’re looking to enjoy the earthier French malbecs or explore the famed Argentinian varietals that grow high in the mountains, you can find the perfect malbec for any occasion.While you most likely associate wine with glass bottles and corks, an increasingly popular trend both traditional and new wineries are adding to their lineups is canned wine. Canned wine offers several conveniences like increased portability, ease of access — no corkscrew needed — pre-measured servings and a lower price point than many bottled wines.

There’s a good chance you might have some questions about the ins and outs of canned wine since it’s still a relative newcomer to the scene. If you’re interested in learning more about canned wine, we’ve compiled an in-depth guide exploring the mysteries of wine in a can.
• When Did Canned Wine Come out?
• How Long Does Canned Wine Last?
• What Are the Best Canned Wines?



Wineries make canned wine the same way they make bottled wine. The main difference comes when winemakers put the finished product inside an aluminum can instead of a glass bottle during the final stage in the winemaking process. You can find all types of wine in cans, including sweet and dry whites, reds and rosés. You’ll also find wine spritzers, which typically have a lower alcohol content and are a combination of wine and natural flavorings.

While some public places like pools or beaches may have rules against bringing glass, aluminum cans don’t face those same restrictions. Canned wines are more convenient than glass bottles because they’re lightweight and don’t require a corkscrew to open. Enjoy wine at the top of a mountain, on a raft in a pool or while relaxing by the ocean. Glass is hard to transport, and you face the risk of it shattering before you reach your destination. Bring canned wine with you worry-free to enjoy your favorite wine without the hassle.

Aluminum cans are also better for the environment because cans are lighter in weight than glass bottles, so transporting them requires a smaller carbon footprint. Along with that, the average aluminum can is made of 70% recycled materials, which is three times more than glass bottles. People are also 20% more likely to recycle cans than glass, so the canned wine revolution is excellent news for the environment.

When Did Canned Wine Come out?

Canned wine has probably been around for longer than you think. Wineries started selling wine in cans in 1935, just two years after the American Prohibition era in 1933. The original canned wines came in flat-top steel containers without an easy way to open them apart from a tool to create a hole in the top.

The first iteration of canned wine was inconvenient, and the wine inside was unstable and didn’t last long. Consumers placed false blame on spoiled wine because it was in a can, and the canned wine industry lost steam.



The Wine Packaging Corporation of Stockton, California, released a new version of canned wine in the 1940s with a crimped bottle cap, much like we’re used to seeing on bottles of beer today. Later, in 1954, Yosemite Winery created three canned wines — white port, port and sherry, sold in six-packs.

Other wineries continued to produce versions of canned wines throughout the second half of the 1900s, but none saw high sales, and it seemed that wine drinkers weren’t interested in canned wines. Most producers stopped selling canned wine quickly after they started following a lack of consumer interest.

If you search for the origins of canned wine, some articles point to the Francis Ford Coppola Winery, which released the Sofia Mini Blanc de Blancs sparkling canned wine in 2004. While we know winemakers have been releasing canned wines since the 1930s, the Coppola Winery’s entry into canned wines marks the beginning of the canned wine revolution.

The winery owner, Francis Coppola, is the father of the famous screenwriter, director, producer and actress Sofia Coppola. The company introduced the Sofia Mini Blanc de Blancs after Sofia’s film “Lost in Translation,” which came out in 2003 and won an Oscar for best original screenplay.

The Francis Ford Coppola Winery created their bubbly in a can to appeal to a younger crowd and make wine seem less intimidating to those newer to the beverage. The president of the winery at the time, Erle Martin, stated the audience they were targeting with the canned wine was predominantly female individuals in their 20s.

This target audience consisted of an urban and sophisticated market instead of established wine drinkers. The cans contained 187 milliliters of wine and had a removable straw attached to the side of the can, much like a revamped juice box for adults.

The winery produced 5,000 cases of the Sofia Mini Blanc de Blancs. Consumers purchased all the cases, so they expanded their production facilities and continue to make canned wine now over 15 years later. Other wineries noticed Coppola’s success with their canned wines in the following years and began to can their own wine.

Now, hundreds of wineries sell canned wine. Advancements in technology have aided the canning process through portable canning machines, allowing smaller wineries to enter the canned wine market that couldn’t afford an in-house canning setup otherwise.



As you would with any new product, you might wonder if canned wine is any good. Luckily, the answer is yes. Much like bottled wines, canned wines come in complex and flavorful varieties that leave you wanting more. The canning process doesn’t take away any of the wine’s quality, so you can be confident that canned wine is an excellent alternative to a glass bottle.

Many wineries can the same wine they put in glass bottles. The quality and taste are the same as bottled wine, and the can doesn’t alter the taste of the wine, either. Canned wines also have vintages like their glass siblings, so if you have a particular vintage you enjoy, you may be able to find it in canned form.

When wineries first introduced canned wine back in the 1930s, many people complained about a metallic taste. But can makers resolved this problem many years ago. Companies now coat the cans’ interior with an epoxy barrier that keeps the wine from coming into contact with the aluminum. The coating prevents the wine from taking on a metallic taste.

You can find canned wines that are either carbonated or still. Many canned wine companies produce versions of both, so there are plenty of options for you, whether you prefer the refreshing bubbles or a more traditional still wine.

When people see canned wine for the first time, many ask, “Do you drink canned wine in the can?” You can choose to drink canned wine directly from the can, or you can pour it into a glass or plastic wine glass. The way you consume the canned wine comes down to personal preference.



Pouring the can into a wine glass may be a better option if you enjoy the subtleties and aromatics of wine. The wine glass will have a larger opening at the top for you to smell the wine properly, just as you could if you poured it from a bottle.

One of the benefits of canned wine is its convenience, though, so feel free to drink it straight from the can with no shame at all.

How Long Does Canned Wine Last?



You may be wondering if canned wine can go bad. Canned wine will not last as long as a comparable glass bottle might. The average shelf life for canned wine is 12 to 18 months, so manufacturers recommend drinking the wine within that time frame. Canned wines can expire and aren’t intended to be collected and aged like some glass bottles are.

You might expect to find expiration dates to help you determine how long canned wine is good for. But expiration dates on canned wines depend on the manufacturer. Some will date the can or the packaging with a best by date, but others may choose not to. Ultimately, you should try to drink your canned wine within a year of the purchase date unless the winery has a date labeled on the package.

If you open a can of wine and cannot finish it in the same evening, you could store the can in a fridge for around two to four days. Consider using plastic wrap or aluminum foil to cover the top of the can to prevent air from entering it. To help the wine last longer, you may want to transfer the contents of the can to a reusable water bottle with a good seal as a better way to keep air out.

Refrigerating your canned wine is entirely up to your personal preferences. If you have a can of cabernet sauvignon and drink your red wines at room temperature, you can leave the can out of the fridge. Sparkling rosé will likely be the best if kept cold in the refrigerator or a cooler.

What Are the Best Canned Wines?

Hundreds of brands sell canned wine across the world. The wine you find in cans varies from traditional varietals like pinot grigio to a unique passionfruit mimosa. There’s a can of wine that can appeal to nearly any taste preference, whether you prefer a dry red or a refreshing white.



Some canned wine brands have naturally proven themselves better than others and have mastered the technique of canning high-quality and delicious wine. Check out the following lines of wine if you’re searching for the best canned wine brands:
• Dark Horse: Dark Horse is a popular wine brand that has made most of their award-winning bottled wines available in can form, as well. The canned wine varietals they offer are Brut Bubbles, Rosé Bubbles, rosé, pinot grigio, sauvignon blanc and pinot noir.
• 19 Crimes: More and more critically acclaimed wineries are emerging in Australia, and 19 Crimes proves that Australia’s vineyards are extremely important for producing canned wine, too. 19 Crimes contributes a canned red wine that has been aged for 30 days in rum barrels, giving the dark wine jammy flavors and a smokey finish.
• Three Brothers: Find the Three Brothers Winery along the Seneca Lake Wine Trail. They offer unique canned wine like The Devil Went Down, a sparkling red blend of barbera and valvin muscat, or Vicious, a blended blush wine with bubbles. You could also try Tenacious, a less bold carbonated red blend with cayuga, riesling, concord, catawba and gruner veltliner grapes. They also offer canned wine spritzers, combining their wines with natural fruit flavors and carbonation. Try the cherry wine spritzer, Love, or Cosmic, a lime wine spritzer.
• Fox Run: Another winery you can find along the Seneca Lake Wine Trail, Fox Run also offers an outstanding selection of canned wines. In fact, this New York-based winery boasts some of the best canned dry riesling and canned unoaked Chardonnay on the market. Choose Fox Run if you want to indulge in a more sophisticated can of wine.
• Babe: Babe is the perfect canned wine producer for any wine lover who wants to sip without all the calories. Many types of canned wine made by Babe contain only 100 calories, so there’s no need to resist reaching for another can. Specifically, Babe is known for making a canned rosé with bubbles that’s excellent for sipping during the summer.
• Michael David: Michael David Winery offers its cabernet sauvignon named Freakshow in both cans and bottles. Freakshow is medium in body with notes of French oak, toasted hazelnut and blackberry cobbler.
• Barefoot Cellars: If you are looking for a quality canned wine you can enjoy on a budget, Barefoot Cellars has you covered. This California producer offers wine enthusiasts a wide range of value-driven canned wines to choose from. Whether you’re looking for a refreshing wine spritzer or a fruity sangria, Barefoot Cellars has a can of wine to satisfy your craving.

Canned wine is the perfect drink to enjoy poolside, at the beach, on a hike or in the comfort of your own home. If you’re new to canned wines, you’re getting started at the perfect time because the quality of these products has seen a significant increase within the past decade. We’ve compiled some of the top-rated canned wines to match your tastes.

White wine is some of the most commonly found canned wines, so if you’re a white wine lover, there are plenty of fantastic options for you to try. Consider these top canned wines in the white category:
• Best canned Chardonnay: 19 Crimes Chardonnay is oaked and tastes of stone fruit with honey, caramel and vanilla with grapes harvested from South Eastern Australia. What’s even better is the can comes with a twist-off cap you can use to reseal your beverage if you don’t finish it in one sitting. The cans are 375 milliliters, equivalent to half a bottle of wine.
• Best canned sauvignon blanc: The Sans Sauvignon Blanc is an organic canned wine from Sans Wine Co. The canned sauvignon blanc they produce is refreshing with notes of stone fruit and pear along with hints of honeysuckle. One can is equal to half a bottle of wine.
• Best canned riesling: The Brotherhood Winery is America’s oldest winery, and they’ve put a modern twist on their Brotherhood Winery BAE Riesling by putting it in cans. The BAE riesling is elegant, crisp and refreshing with fresh peaches, honeydew and lemon zest flavors. It’s perfect for a warm summer day by the pool.
• Best canned pinot gris: Enjoy the Union Wine Company Underwood Pinot Gris for a canned wine critics rank highly. It’s an elegant and fresh wine with notes of apple, pear and cucumber and a hint of thyme.
• Best canned Moscato: Any white wine fan will go wild for a pack of Bartenura Moscato D’asti. This Italian brand produces a canned Moscato that is light, sweet and perfect for pairing with a wide variety of foods. Pick up a can of Moscato by Bartenura if you want a refreshing white wine with lingering hints of pear, tangerine and nectar flavors.



Red wines are becoming more popular in canned form as canned wines continue to evolve and develop. Here are some of the best canned red wine options available on the market today:
• Best canned pinot noir: The Dark Horse Pinot Noir is velvety smooth. It’s the best red wine in a can for anyone wanting a medium-bodied option with layered notes of dark cherry, blackberry and strawberry with hints of spiced oak.
• Best canned cabernet sauvignon: The Michael David Freakshow Cabernet Sauvignon is a medium-bodied wine aged in oak barrels for 14 months. The wine has fruity aromas of strawberry jam, fig and Bing cherry and a slight note of spice. You’ll notice flavors of fresh red fruits, toasted hazelnut and clove with a fruit-forward finish.
• Best canned merlot: The Uncanny Wines Merlot has notes of mulberry and dark chocolate, and it’s fruit-forward with a dry finish. The Uncanny Winery is located in South Africa and emphasizes they add no sulfur to their wines.
• Best canned malbec: The Archer Roose Malbec tastes of dark ripe fruit with warm vanilla, blackberry and plum. The grapes for this wine are from the Uco Valley in Mendoza, Argentina.



Sparkling wines are what caused the canned wine renaissance back in 2004 with the Copolla Winery’s introduction of the Blanc de Blancs. Since then, there has been an influx of new and exciting sparkling canned wines that are refreshing and perfect for celebrations. Here are some of the best canned sparkling wines available today:
• Best canned wine spritzer: The Three Brothers Cosmic Lime Spritzer is made with all-natural ingredients and is as refreshing as it is delicious. The bright lime taste will awaken your taste buds, making it a unique option for the best sparkling wine in a can. It’s the perfect beverage to bring with you to the beach.
• Best canned sparkling red wine: The Three Brothers Tenacious Red Carbonated Wine is a light red wine blend consisting mainly of Cayuga, riesling and concord. It’s a perfect option for red wine lovers who want something a little more refreshing for a hot day.
• Best canned sparkling white wine: As the wine that created the canned wine revolution, the Copolla Winery Sofia Blanc de Blancs is often considered the best wine in a can. It’s a refreshing blend including pinot blanc, riesling and muscat. You can taste mellow notes of fruits like pears and apples and touches of honeysuckle and citrus.
• Best canned Champagne: The next time you host an event, consider providing your guests with celebratory canned Champagne. Andre offers cans of brut that can make any occasion feel special. Once you try using this convenient way of serving your party guests Champagne, you might never go back to buying bottles of bubbly.

Rosé itself has also seen a boom in popularity in recent years. Combine that with canned wines’ increase in prevalence, and you have a perfect duo. Here are the best canned rosé wines you should try:
• Best canned sparkling rosé wine: For the best rosé wine in a can, consider the Babe Rosé. Three cans of refreshing Babe Rosé are equivalent to an entire bottle, and one can has only 100 calories. It’s a light and sweet rosé with notes of melon.
• Best canned rosé wine: The Dark Horse Rosé is dryer than the sparkling rosé wine in a can Babe produces. It’s bright and crisp with refreshing raspberry and floral notes.
• Best canned brut rosé: A canned brut rosé is a delightful treat, especially when it’s a can of Andre brut rosé Champagne. This type of canned brut rosé is filled with sweet, delicate flavors, along with fizzy bubbles that will light up your senses. Make sure you savor the distinct notes of cranberry and raspberry that this crisp canned rosé wine finishes with.



Canned wine embraces the idea of freedom and flexibility with your beverage choice. There’s something special about cracking open a can of your favorite wine while adventuring outdoors. Bottled wines can be a hassle when you want an easy and portable beverage, so consider trying out some canned options.

Whether you’re a wine aficionado or new to the beverage, canned wines are a great option, and you’re sure to find one that appeals to your tastes.

Marketview Liquor has a wide variety of canned wines you can order online and have delivered to your front door. Shop our canned wine selection today to try something new or purchase a case of your favorites.Many people are left scratching their heads when they see the term “vegan wine.” After all, wine is made from grapes. So why isn’t all wine vegan? The answer to this question lies in the technicalities of how wine is produced and certain additives that may be used in the process. In fact, it may surprise you to find out that many wines are not considered vegan.

To explain this concept, we’ll break down what vegan wine means, why wine is not always vegan and how to tell if a wine is vegan-friendly. In this guide to vegan wine, we’ll answer your questions about this wine type and help you learn how to find the best vegan wines.
• How to Tell if Wine Is Vegan

On the most basic level, for a wine to be labeled as vegan, it should not contain any animal ingredients or use any animals or animal ingredients in its processing. Most wines are simply grape juice with some yeast added in the fermentation process — so what makes a wine not vegan? The reason has to do with the special filtration or clarification process in winemaking. This special process for clarifying wine is called fining, and it doesn’t always use vegan or even vegetarian ingredients.

Many wines go through a special clarifying process called fining before they are bottled and reach the consumer. Wine that is young — that is, it hasn’t been aged — can have an assortment of small particulates or sediment in it that makes it appear somewhat hazy. These particles can include certain proteins, tannins, tartrates, polysaccharides and phenolics.

None of these natural particles are particularly harmful to the wine drinker. However, wines with a bit more clarity look more palatable to most people, so the fining process has become a common practice in winemaking. With some wines, the process can also give a more pleasing aroma, taste or color, or remove some of the bitterness of a wine.

As they age, wines tend to lose this hazy quality on their own. To speed up the process and ensure quality and clarity, some winemakers use a variety of fining agents. The fining process helps get wines to the market faster and can save winemakers money by speeding up the production. These added ingredients are often a type of protein, and they act like a magnet, grabbing on to the small particles that make the wine look hazy.

Without the fining agents, most of these particulates would be too small to filter out. But when these agents are added, they attract the molecules and make larger particles that are easier to filter out of the wine. Many years ago, ox blood was commonly used as a fining agent. Ox blood has fallen out of fashion — and its use is now banned in both the EU and U.S. — because of mad cow disease scares.

Today, there are many different types of fining agents, and each one is typically used for different purposes. It is important to note that all these fining agents are filtered out from the finished product. However, many vegans and vegetarians do not want to consume a product that has used animal products in any part of the manufacturing of the item.

A good comparison to understand this would be vegan cosmetics. Many of these products do not have animal ingredients in them, but some companies perform animal testing. Overall, there may be harm to animals in purchasing the product, even when there are no ingredients directly in the products. In wines, there is also a slight chance that some residual particles of the fining agent remain in the wine in very small amounts, and for many vegans, this is something they would rather avoid.

Less commonly used animal-based fining agents include blood and bone marrow, fish oils and chitin — a powder derived from the shells of sea crustaceans. The most commonly used fining agents are largely sourced from animal-based ingredients, and include the following:

This additive is the main protein found in milk and it is commonly used for fining white wines and sherries. Casein is especially good at reducing phenolic compounds in wine, which can cause bitterness and browning. Because it comes from milk, casein is suitable for some vegetarians, but not for vegans.

Albumin, or egg whites, is another commonly used fining agent. It is also good at removing phenolic compounds and is more often used in red wines to give them more soft and supple qualities. As albumin is part of an egg, wines that use this fining agent would be acceptable for some vegetarians, but vegans would not find it suitable.

Also commonly found in gummy candies, marshmallows and jelly desserts, gelatin is a byproduct of the meat industry that is made by boiling bones, ligaments, tendons and skin from cows, horses and pigs. As such, both vegans and vegetarians generally avoid this ingredient.

As a fining agent, gelatin is used in a variety of wines. For white wines, gelatin reduces the compounds that can cause haziness, bitterness, astringency or a browning of the color. It’s also used in some red wines to reduce bitterness and astringency, as well as to prevent loss of color. Gelatin is one of the most aggressive fining agents and must be used carefully so it doesn’t remove too much of the color or subtleties in the flavor notes.

Isinglass is a collagen protein substance that comes from the dried swim bladders, and sometimes skin or other tissues, of certain types of fish. This makes it something to avoid for vegans and vegetarians alike. As a fining agent, it is most often used for white wines as it can successfully clarify the wine without affecting the level of astringency as much as other agents.

It can also remove harsh tastes while bringing out more delicate, fruity notes in the wine. Isinglass is also used in a similar process to clarify many types of beer. Recently, the famous beer brand Guinness changed their process to exclude isinglass and make their beer suitable for vegans to drink.

With so many non-vegan ingredients commonly used as fining agents, what can winemakers do to make a vegan-friendly wine? One of the easiest ways to make a vegan wine is to skip the fining process. Fining is not required to make good wine, so many vegan winemakers skip this step altogether.

Higher-quality wines that are left to age longer are less likely to have any fining agents used at all. It’s important to note that fining is not the same as filtering, and wines can still go through other filtering processes without any fining agents. The good news is that there are lots of wines available that do not use any type of fining.

For other wines that need to get to the market quickly, don’t have time to age or have other needs that require fining, there are some vegan options for fining agents. While they may not be as common as the animal-based fining agents, these ingredients are slowly gaining in popularity as the demand for more vegan wine increases. These plant-based alternatives can all be used as fining agents in wine:
• Bentonite clay: By far the most commonly used vegan-friendly fining agent is bentonite clay, which is very effective at absorbing proteins and other particulates in wines. Powdered bentonite is added to hot water to make a slurry, which is then added to the wine to clarify it. Bentonite comes from weathered volcanic ash and can have different mineral properties. It is more commonly used to clarify white wines.
• Kaolin clay: A little less common than bentonite clay is kaolin clay. This is a mineral clay named for a Chinese village, but it can be found all over the world. Kaolin clay is popular in skincare and cosmetic applications, and it can also be used for wine fining.
• Carbon: Another popular vegan fining agent is carbon, in the form of activated charcoal. Carbon is often used for both white and red wines, decreasing brown and pink tones in white wines and reducing excess color from red wines. It also works well for getting rid of “off” flavors in any type of wine.
• Polyvinylpolypyrrolidone (PVPP): This agent is a synthetic polymer that can be used in white wines to reduce compounds that cause browning or pinking of the color, as well as the astringency of the wine. It can also reduce bitterness in red wines and brighten the color, but it is not used very often for red wines. As a fining agent, PVPP is known to be more gentle than other options and is great for preserving the natural flavor notes of the wine.

Other vegan-friendly fining agents include limestone, plant-based casein, silica gel and vegetable plaques. These fining agent alternatives are safe for all vegetarians and vegans.

Besides the wine fining process, some vegans have other concerns with the winemaking process. This can include agglomerated corks, which are economical corks made from granulated cork byproducts. These corks are like a version of particleboard, and they often use different types of glues to hold the cork granules together. Unfortunately for vegans, the glue is usually made from milk proteins or gelatin.

Other wines may use beeswax in their corks or to seal the top of the wine bottle and cork. Strict vegans generally avoid products made from bees, like honey and beeswax, as it is seen as an exploitation of these insects. Like with fining agents, these cork ingredients don’t make their way into the final product that is consumed. However, many vegans would rather avoid these products because animal ingredients are used in the production and packaging.

How to Tell if Wine Is Vegan

With more knowledge about the fining process and what makes some wine not vegan, it’s hopefully a bit easier to know what to look for. The problem is that many wines do not include information about the fining process and what ingredients were used on their labels.

To make things more complicated, some winemakers may use a combination of fining agents — maybe even a mixture of vegan and non-vegan ingredients. Unfortunately, you can’t tell if fining agents were used, or which ones were used just by looking at a wine or tasting it. You may have to dig a little deeper and do some of your own research to find suitable vegan wines that you like.

Vegan lifestyles are trending, and more people than ever are looking for all sorts of vegan products, including wine. Many winemakers are aware of this trend and are starting to denote vegetarian and vegan designations on their labels and in their advertising to make it easier for vegans to shop for wine. However, this is not an industry standard. In fact, there are no current labeling requirements from any governing body regarding fining agents, other additives or even whether a wine is vegan-friendly.

In the U.S., two different organizations are responsible for mandated labeling on alcoholic beverages — the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the Tax and Trade Bureau (TTB). Today, the only ingredient mandated to appear on wine labels is added sulfites. In both the U.S. and across Europe, a recent push for more transparency and ingredient listings on wine labels is taking hold.

Consumers today want more information on the products they buy and use, and wine is no exception. They are more informed and have more concerns about ingredients that are organic and biodynamic and whether they contain GMOs and potential allergens. The demand for more precise labeling is largely consumer driven and could become standard in the near future.

If the ingredients aren’t always listed on a wine label, how can you find a vegan wine? While it may seem like a difficult task, you can find great vegan wines of all varietals to enjoy. Try these tips for finding and shopping for vegan wines you’ll love:

Not all vegan wine is labeled as such, but there are many great options that do include this on their labels. Watch for a “V” or “Veg” or other vegan symbol on the wine labels. As the demand grows for both vegan products and more transparent product labeling, more wine companies are choosing to designate their wines that are vegan-friendly.

While not every unfined wine may be labeled with this information, if you see this on a wine label, it’s a good indication that the wine is vegan, as no fining agents are used whatsoever.

Many wine companies are also labeling their wines as natural, organic and biodynamic. These labels do not guarantee that the wine will be vegan, but it’s highly likely because most natural wines are not fined. Some wine importers even specialize in natural wines, and their selections will be mostly vegan.

Cheaper wines may be more convenient and easier on the wallet, but they are more likely to use fining agents to rush the wine to the market quickly. High-quality wines are more likely to have been aged naturally without using fining agents.

Kosher and vegan don’t mean the same thing. However, there is a good deal of overlap between the two, so this is a good place to start when you’re searching for vegan wines. Kosher wines cannot have animal byproducts added like gelatin, casein or isinglass, so usually kosher wines are also suitable for vegans. Because the details for kosher designations are different than vegan ones, you should still do your own research on these wines to make sure they are actually vegan.

Look up your favorite wine companies to see if you can find more information about whether their wines are vegan. Reach out and ask them about their fining process or any added ingredients. If you find out a wine isn’t vegan, you can also reach out to the winemaker and suggest they consider a vegan alternative so more people can enjoy their wines.

Additionally, you can check out Barnivore online, a database of thousands of wines that are checked and double-checked for their vegan status. The directory also lists vegan beers and liquors, and is a great resource for any vegan.

There are several reputable organizations researching, testing and providing certification for all sorts of vegan products, including wine. Once certified, winemakers can choose to display the certification logo on their label, making it easier for vegans to find their wines.

One of the most well-known certification organizations is BeVeg, a law firm devoted to researching and certifying vegan products. If you see the BeVeg logo, you can be sure the product meets the exacting vegan standards of the organization and is safe for consumption. The BeVeg app is available to download for free and includes a searchable database of certified products.

6. Ask for Help at the Wine Shop

When you’re shopping for wines, you can always ask for help in finding the right wines. Wine store employees and online representatives are usually knowledgeable about the wines they carry and can direct you to wines you might like that also fit with your values. If you’ve found specific vegan wines that your favorite shop doesn’t carry, you can also request they order them for you.

It’s easy to browse vegan wines online from the comfort of your home and have them delivered! At Marketview Liquor, we are proud to offer a wide selection of vegan wines online, so no matter what types of wines you like, you’re sure to find them here.

We know it’s important to find wines that meet your dietary standards and values, and you can trust our selections to be completely vegan-friendly. If you have any questions about finding vegan wines or have special requests, reach out to us online and we will get back to you as soon as possible. We are happy to help you find just the right wine!The world of wine is vast, with far more options than merely red and white. That means the pairing possibilities for wine and food are nearly endless. Where do you begin when there are so many varietals and tasting notes to navigate? With food and wine pairing recipes and a few tips on hand, you’ll create the perfect complement to any meal, snack or dessert you can think of.

Pairing wine and food with different recipes lets you create a restaurant-quality meal and experience at home. Don’t open a bottle at random — use this guide to food and wine pairing recipes and put together something delicious.
• Tips for Trying Food and Wine Pairing Recipes
• Order Wine Online With Marketview Liquor for Your Wine and Food Pairing Recipes

Tips for Trying Food and Wine Pairing Recipes

Whether you want to make chicken recipes paired with red wine or pour something to go with your dessert, you have many options. Before you create a wine pairing menu with these recipes, it helps to understand the thought that goes into each match. When you complement your appetizer, meal or dessert with a glass of wine, you should bring out the best of everything.

Combining the right food recipes and wine pairings elevates everything from your cooking to the bottle of wine, so carefully consider what you do. Instead of pouring whatever wine you have at home with your next meal, follow these tips for trying food with wine pairing recipes.

When creating the best food and wine pairing recipes, it helps to understand why some wines pair well with specific foods and some don’t. It’s mostly about the wine’s and food’s flavors and whether they clash with each other, contrast nicely or create an ideal complement. For wine, those flavors can include the following.
• Acid: Wine’s acidity can range from tart to bitter. Acidity can either create a bright wine or one that causes your mouth to water.
• Fruit: As part of the wine-making process, fruit often comes through in the final flavor notes. While grapes are the common ingredient, you can find wines that include other fruity notes.
• Earthy: Earthy wines are the opposite of fruity wines. Their tasting notes and aromas are more reminiscent of what you’d associate with the earth, and they might be dry.
• Tannins: As an astringent, tannins in wine create the dryness you feel in your mouth when you take a sip. Dry wines have higher tannin concentrations.
• Sweet: Sweet wines are the opposite of dry wines. They have a self-explanatory, more sugary taste. That sweetness can come from fruit or added sugar during the wine-making process.
• Alcohol: The alcohol taste in wine will likely be more subtle than what you’d find in spirits. But when it’s present, it can moderately elevate sweetness.

If you’re a wine connoisseur, you’re familiar with those and other notes and tastes, but even casual sippers can learn to notice them. Anyone will be more familiar with the flavors we find in food. These are the qualities you have to compare to your wine when you’re getting ideas for food and wine pairing recipes. Your food may combine some of these qualities, so consider every facet of your recipe when choosing the right wine. Possible food flavors include the following.
• Fat: Meat, dairy and oils contain fat elements. Wine doesn’t have that same element, so you’ll have to cut the fat with tannins, contrast it with acid or complement the richness with alcohol.
• Salt: Most savory foods have a salt element, which, again, you won’t find in wine. It can be tricky to find wine complements with salty food, but sparkling varieties are a safe bet.
• Acid: Acid appears in wine and food, with ingredients like citrus fruit, vinegar or bitter greens. Wine’s acidity should be the same or greater than the food you serve.
• Sweet: In food, sweetness can come from sugar, fruits, chocolate and other ingredients. Again, wine should be sweeter than your dessert or appetizer.

To create harmonious matches for your wine and your food, you should try to create either a congruent or a contrasting pairing. Which one you end up with will depend on what you pair. There are two possibilities.
• Contrasting pairings: Combining opposite flavors creates a contrasting pairing. When your wine and food have opposite tastes — think salty and sweet or acidic and fatty — you create balance. White wines, along with sparkling and rosé, often make contrasting pairings.
• Congruent pairings: Amplify the tastes of wine and food when you create a harmonious pairing. These use shared flavor compounds, like savory and earthy or sweet and fruity. Red wines often combine with recipes to make a congruent pairing.

With those possibilities in mind, you should ultimately avoid matching spicy, bitter and acidic with each other. Other than that, salt, fat and sweet play well with each other and different flavors.

If you do not have much wine experience, you may not know that different varieties have various textures. Wine connoisseurs describe the texture in terms of weight and viscosity, known as “body.” Vineyards then categorize their wines in three ways.
• Full-bodied: You may have heard this term before when purchasing wine. A full-bodied wine is thicker. When you swirl your glass, it coats the sides. That creates a richer mouthfeel and lets you enjoy more complex flavors.
• Light-bodied: Wines in this category have a viscosity that’s more like water. That texture results in delicate flavors and finishes, since the wine won’t linger on your palate.
• Medium-bodied: These wines fall somewhere between full- and light-bodied. Their concentration isn’t as high as full-bodied wines, but you may notice more complexities than you would in a light wine.

Foods have many textures, often differing ones in a single dish. Ultimately, you should consider heavy versus light foods. A steak dinner will fall into the heavy category, while many appetizers, chicken and fish dishes are medium or light. The general rule is to pair light with light, full with heavy and medium with medium. A full-bodied wine could distract too much from a light dish’s flavor and texture, and a heavy dish will overshadow a light-bodied wine.

When you put wine pairing and appetizer recipes together, you create delicious starters and snacks. Impress visitors or treat yourself to an indulgent snack with food and wine pairing appetizer recipes. Complement anything from dry wines to full-bodied varieties with the right starter, and you’re sure to have a hit on your hands. For appetizer recipes and wine pairings, try the suggestions below.

With a bubbly texture, minerality and acidity, sparkling wine is an ideal complement for salty snacks. Whether you want to indulge after a long day or need something to serve guests, you can’t go wrong with appetizer recipes with wine pairings, especially when you pour something sparkling. For appetizer and wine pairing recipes on the salty side, head to the kitchen and make recipes like these.
• Homemade potato chips: Wow yourself or guests with homemade chips you didn’t pour from a bag. Thinly cutting the potatoes will be easier with a mandoline slicer, but if your knife skills are up to par, wash, optionally peel and slice one medium potato per two servings. Soak the slices in a large bowl of cold water as you go, then drain, rinse and pat dry. Heat a quart of frying oil to 365 degrees Fahrenheit and fry in small batches until the slices are golden brown. Season with salt.
• Homemade fries: For a more substantial snack to pair with sparkling wine, turn potatoes into homemade fries. Wash and cut your potatoes into thin, evenly sized strips, and soak the slices in cool water for half an hour. Drain, rinse and pat the slices dry, then heat a quart of oil in a large pot to 275 degrees. Fry the potatoes for five minutes, remove and drain them on paper towels. Heat the oil to 350 and fry the potatoes again for five minutes, seasoning with salt.
• Homemade soft pretzels: If you have time for a more involved recipe, make mouthwatering soft pretzels. While this recipe is a bit more complicated than others, it’s sure to pair well with sparkling wine. It starts with a yeasted dough left to rise for about an hour. As the dough rises, bring 10 cups of water and two-thirds of a cup of baking soda to a boil. You’ll dunk your shaped pretzel dough for 30 seconds, remove, then brush with egg yolk and sprinkle on pretzel salt before baking at 450 degrees.

Do you have a variety of this red wine on hand for pairing with appetizer recipes? As a full-bodied wine, cabernet sauvignon pairs perfectly with fat-marbled red meat. The resulting combination feels decadent, ideal for a romantic evening in or impressing your guests. Pour a glass of your favorite cabernet sauvignon and create appetizer recipes with wine pairings like these.
• Beef sliders: Sometimes, the perfect appetizer recipes to pair with red wine are miniature versions of main dishes. Make your slider patties equal sizes by lining a muffin tray with paper cupcake liners, sprinkling the cups with salt and pepper. Add a ball of hamburger meat to each cup, season the tops and place another liner on top. Press down to make patties, remove the paper liners and cook in a nonstick skillet over medium-high for about three minutes on each side. Serve on slider buns with your favorite toppings.
• Baby lamb chops: For a high-class appetizer, serve baby lamb chops with a fresh, herbal green sauce. Salt and cook the lamb chops to medium-rare over high heat, about 10 minutes. Freshen up the meat with a sauce including parsley, mint, olive oil, toasted almonds and lemon juice. Combine the ingredients in a food processor, adding a few anchovies if you like for a salty contrast. All these flavors will balance well with cabernet sauvignon’s richness.
• Steak bites: Break out toothpicks for this steak appetizer recipe. Cut a sirloin steak into cubes, season with salt and pepper and heat oil in a skillet over high heat. Cook the steak cubes for about four minutes, stirring occasionally to brown all the sides. Add butter to melt in the pan with the meat and some minced garlic cloves, depending on how strong you want the flavor to be. Coat the meat in the garlic butter sauce, then serve topped with parsley for a simple, yet delicious, appetizer.

For a popular dry white wine that complements appetizers well, reach for a chardonnay. This wine often features unique flavors, so you’ll want to serve it with meals that don’t overpower them. While chardonnay can pair with light or heavy meals, you may wish to keep things light for your appetizer with these recipes.
• Chicken quesadillas: Are you searching for simple food and wine pairing appetizer recipes? Chicken quesadillas make many servings and are light enough to go with a glass of chardonnay, so add this to your chicken recipes that pair with white wine. Fully cook chicken breast with your preferred seasoning — like a fajita spice mix — then dice or shred it up. Layer shredded cheese of your preference — try cheddar and Monterey Jack — and the chicken onto your favorite tortillas. Include sautéed peppers and onions if you like for more flavor.
• Grilled shrimp: Chardonnay pairs well with seafood and shellfish, and marinated grilled shrimp makes a delicious appetizer. Combine olive oil, parsley, lemon juice, garlic, salt and pepper for a simple marinade to start this white wine and food pairing recipe. Add tomato paste and a few dashes of hot pepper sauce for more flavor if you want, and marinate the shrimp in the fridge for two hours. Skewer the shrimp, discard the marinade and grill on medium-low heat for about five minutes per side.
• Smoked salmon crostini: Impress guests when you add these appetizers paired with wine to your recipes. Start your smoked salmon crostini by slicing a baguette diagonally into quarter-inch-thick slices. Place the slices on a baking sheet and brush with melted butter or oil, then toast in a 400-degree oven for about 10 minutes. Top the toast with a blend of cream cheese, Greek yogurt, dill and lemon juice and smoked salmon slices. Garnish with a small sprig of dill for an impressive bite-sized appetizer to serve with chardonnay.

Enhance your appetizer wine pairings with recipes that are simple to throw together. Dips and salsas feature fresh flavors that go well with the light and often fruity notes of sauvignon blanc. Perfect for appetizers that feed a group or enjoying while relaxing with a movie, these easy dip recipes are a must-try with this white wine.
• Tomato salsa: For a classic match with store-bought or homemade tortilla chips, make DIY tomato salsa. Take advantage of sauvignon blanc’s unique ability to pair with raw tomatoes and chop some up, mixing them with finely diced onions and minced serrano chiles. Season with salt, pepper and chopped cilantro, and add some zip with a squeeze of lime juice. Dip your favorite tortilla chips, and don’t forget a glass of sauvignon blanc.
• Guacamole: A simple guacamole is sure to stand out among your white wine food pairing recipes. Pit, peel and mash avocados with fresh lemon or lime juice. Stir in minced green onion, chopped cilantro, salt and pepper to taste. Again, you can serve this dip with homemade or store-bought tortilla chips, or try it with veggies like celery sticks or bell pepper strips. Whatever you choose, the bright, fresh flavors will balance well with dry sauvignon blanc varieties.
• Fruit salsa: Make sweet appetizers with these wine pairing recipes. Wash, peel and dice a mix of fruits like mango, pineapple, kiwi and honeydew as the base of your fruit salsa. Kick up the heat and flavor with chopped jalapeño, sweet red pepper and red onion. Season with salt, white pepper and minced cilantro, then gently toss everything together with apple cider vinegar and lime juice for an acidic tang. Serve with plain or cinnamon tortilla chips and a glass of your favorite sauvignon blanc.

When it’s time for your evening meal, you’ll want to pull out the best wine pairing dinner menu recipes. From savory, filling meals to lighter, refreshing dishes to end your day, plenty of dinner recipes make the ideal accompaniment to various wines. Pick your favorite varietal to design your meal around, or choose your favorite dinner to decide what wine to get. Try the dinner and wine pairing recipes below for your next meal.

As a heavier red wine, syrah, also called shiraz, goes well with hearty foods. That opens up a world of possibilities for wine pairing dinner recipes that are filling after a long day. Avoid pairing this dry wine with lighter meals, like seafood, or sour flavors. Instead, opt for flavorful grilled dishes that complement the tannins you’ll find in these varieties. Consider these dinner recipes paired with red wine.
• Spareribs: Syrah and pork make an excellent pairing, especially when your dinner is a flavorful rack of spareribs. Use your favorite sparerib recipe, or try seasoning pork ribs with a dry rub of brown sugar, fajita seasoning and sweet paprika. Baste the ribs as you grill them with a mix of garlic, honey, mustard and Worcestershire sauce for a meal that combines sweet and tangy.
• Barbecue chicken: If you’re searching for delicious chicken and wine pairing recipes, turn to the grill.For a slight twist on barbecue chicken, mix rice vinegar and crushed garlic with your favorite barbecue sauce. Enhance the flavor with a dry rub of salt, pepper, cayenne pepper, paprika and onion powder. Grill halved chicken on a medium-high grill for about four minutes skin-side down, then flip and grill for about 35 minutes, basting with barbecue sauce. The rice vinegar’s slight tang suits syrah’s medium acidity and high tannin flavors.
• Grilled steak: Nothing creates a delicious filling dinner quite like grilled steak. And when you pair your favorite cut of beef with a glass of syrah, you’ll have a dinner wine pairing at home that feels like something you’d find at a high-end steakhouse. Whether you season your grilled steak with a mix of salt, peppercorns, dried garlic and onion or let the meat’s flavor stand out, you’re sure to enjoy whatever you grill.

For more meat dinner recipes paired with red wine, open a bottle of the ever-popular merlot. This wine’s earthy, fruity notes and smooth finish make it an enjoyable addition to a meat main dish. While syrah complements grilled meat’s smoky flavors, merlot goes nicely with carefully developed, savory tastes. Enjoy your preferred merlot with dishes like these.
• Braised pork: Braised pork is tender, flavorful and rich — the perfect complement to a glass of merlot. Sear a pork shoulder or roast, set it to the side and sweat chopped onion, celery and carrot, all in a large Dutch oven. Add garlic, then tomato paste, deglazing with a cup of red wine, which will help the dish pair even better with your merlot. Add beef stock, cover the pot and put it into a 325-degree oven for about three hours, or until the pork is fork-tender.
• Sheet pan lamb: For delicious dinner recipes to pair with red wine that come with easy cleanup, you can’t go wrong with sheet pan dinners. Prepare a bed of produce for your boneless leg of lamb roast with potatoes, red onion and thinly sliced lemon. Combine those with roasted garlic cloves, sun-dried tomatoes, cherry tomatoes and black and green olives. Flavor the lamb roast with a mix of salt, pepper, onion powder, rosemary and Dijon mustard, then rest it on top of the vegetables to roast.
• Veal chops: With a more delicate flavor than beef, veal chops still stand up to a glass of merlot. Baste yours with a rosemary butter sauce for added richness. If you don’t enjoy veal, you could always swap the meat for pork chops and still serve them alongside merlot. Or, try similar flavors in chicken recipes that pair with red wine.

If you want an easy dinner recipe with your wine pairings, reach for a red or white zinfandel and pizza or pasta. Red varieties provide bold and complex flavors, while white zinfandels are lighter in flavor and often lower in calories. Create the dish you’ve been craving when you make dinner from scratch. Pour a glass of your favorite zinfandel based on what recipe you try.
• Pasta Alfredo: Make a creamy Alfredo pasta dish to pair with a light zinfandel. Make an Alfredo sauce recipe by simmering a cup of heavy cream for five minutes. Whisk in a crushed clove of garlic and a cup and a half of grated Parmesan, stirring quickly to incorporate everything. Stir in fresh chopped parsley and serve the homemade sauce over your favorite pasta — fettuccine is a popular option to stand up to this luscious sauce. Add cooked chicken to create chicken recipes to pair with white wine.
• Lasagna: As a decadent pasta dish, lasagna complements a bolder zinfandel. Let the sauce and cheese blend stand out in a vegetarian dish, or try a lasagna recipe that adds lean ground beef and sweet Italian sausage. Either way, a combination of mozzarella, ricotta and grated Parmesan will complement the fruity notes in a glass of zinfandel.
• Pizza: You might not expect a glass of zinfandel to appear on pizza night, but it’s a fitting combination. Choose a bolder wine to go with the tomato flavors of sauce-heavy pizzas. If you’re a white pizza fan, enjoy a lighter zinfandel with your dinner. No matter what you select, try pizza recipes with flavorful toppings like mushrooms, Italian sausage and pepperoncini. Interested in chicken recipes to pair with red wine? Top your pizza with cooked chicken for a delicious and filling result.

Open a bottle of dry rosé for dinner wine pairing recipes on the lighter side. Rosé is the perfect compromise when you want chicken recipes that pair with white wine to drink, but others prefer red. Dry rosé’s crisp flavors go well with various light dinners. Try rosé wine food pairing recipes like these for a refreshing meal to close out your day.
• Chicken salad: For a chicken recipe with a wine pairing, toss together a simple salad. Consider a chicken salad with Mediterranean flavors. Feta cheese and Kalamata olives add a salty brine that contrasts well with rosé’s slightly sweet, refreshing flavor, and the fatty flavors help cut through the rosé’s dry finish.
• Salmon: Baked salmon is light and flavorful, the perfect pairing with rosé wine. Top yours with a garlic butter sauce, and make it a more filling meal with roasted potatoes and asparagus on the side. The meal will still be light enough and include subtle fat flavors to contrast a dry rosé.
• Grilled oysters: Contrast the brine of grilled oysters with a glass of rosé. When you top your grilled shellfish with a sauce of olive oil, butter, chili flakes and a bit of lemon juice, you also help cut the wine’s dryness. To grill your oysters, you can either set large shells directly on the grates or nestle smaller ones in a pan filled with rock salt to keep them steady on the grill. That prevents them from losing their flavorful, briny juices.

If you’re ready for another glass when dessert time rolls around, you may want a change of pace. The wine you pour for your after-meal treat will depend on what you’ve made from your wine and dessert pairing recipes. Try these dessert and wine pairing recipes for a sweet end to any day.

For a decadent combination, try a chocolate dessert recipe and wine pairing with cabernet sauvignon. This red wine has enough complexity and fruity notes to stand up to chocolate, which would overshadow other wines. Get baking and pour a glass with these sweet dessert wine pairing recipes.
• Chocolate chip cookies: Odds are, you already have a favorite chocolate chip cookie recipe. And while the well-known pairing to these treats would be a cold glass of milk, try a fruity red wine like a cabernet sauvignon instead. For a classic wine and chocolate pairing, bake dark chocolate chip cookies and enjoy the chocolate’s complex, slightly bitter notes as they complement the wine.
• Chocolate cake: Whether you serve yours sliced or as a cupcake, chocolate cake plays well with the deep notes of a cabernet sauvignon. If you like a chocolatey flavor, add a teaspoon of espresso powder to your dry cake ingredients. Your cake won’t taste like coffee, but the espresso helps bring out the chocolate flavors so they can still shine alongside a stronger cabernet sauvignon.

Cheesecake is such a dense, indulgent dessert, you can break the full-body pairing rule and serve an acidic, light riesling instead. You can even play around with the toppings or fillings you use in your recipe or keep things simple. Either way, you’ll create a decadent and delicious dessert pairing with options like these.
• Plain cheesecake: Cheesecake on its own already includes contrasting flavors and textures. The rich combination of cream cheese, sour cream, eggs and sugar complements a crunchy graham cracker crust. But when you pair a decadent plain cheesecake with a glass of riesling, you add even more contrast and let the flavors and textures of the dessert and the drink stand out.
• Berry-topped cheesecake: Riesling’s light, sometimes crisp flavor and texture also go well with a berry-topped cheesecake. Make a sweet, yet tart, topping with your fruit of choice, like raspberries, strawberries, blueberries or cherries.

Desserts aren’t just for fruit and chocolate. So when you go unique with savory-sweet desserts, make a straightforward dessert wine selection with sherry. Sherry often features notes of dried fruit and a nutty flavor that suits the complexity of savory-sweet desserts. Try these dessert recipes to pair with wine when you’re craving something different.
• Pumpkin pie: If you don’t already have a favorite pumpkin pie recipe, it’s a pretty simple dessert to put together. An unbaked pie crust serves as the base for a mix of canned pumpkin, a can of sweetened condensed milk and two eggs. Complement sherry’s nutty notes and spice the pie mixture with cinnamon, nutmeg and ginger, and add a dash of salt. Bake in a 425-degree oven for 15 minutes, lower the heat to 350 degrees and bake for another 40 minutes for a delicious dessert recipe wine pairing.
• Carrot cake: Sweet and spiced carrot cake makes another excellent addition to your wine pairing dessert recipes. Grated carrots, sugar and a cream cheese frosting give this cake its characteristic sweetness, while chopped pecans and cinnamon add nuttiness and spice that go well with many sherry varieties.

Often, vegetarian recipes to pair with wine have similar flavors you’d find in meat dishes. Because of that, vegan- and vegetarian-friendly meals easily complement different varietals’ flavor profiles. Consider pouring a glass with these vegetarian and wine pairing recipes.

Remember, cabernet sauvignon is a full-bodied wine. As such, it goes well with the rich flavors of mushrooms in vegetarian dishes. Choose rich, earthy mushrooms as the main component of a meal you want to pair with a cabernet sauvignon. For vegetarian recipes paired with red wine, incorporate these mushrooms into your ingredients list.
• Dried porcini mushrooms: Porcini mushrooms’ intense, earthy flavor works in simple dishes and pairs with a glass of cabernet sauvignon. For a vegetarian meal, try dried porcini mushrooms in a creamy pasta dish. Parmesan cheese adds a bit of salty tang and complements the fat from heavy cream. Overall, you’ll have a satisfyingly rich dish that complements this wine’s full body texture.
• Portobello mushrooms: A grilled Portobello mushroom is a simple vegetarian meal to include in your collection of red wine food pairing recipes. Add a bit of acidity with balsamic vinegar to make a harmonious pairing with this wine’s medium acidity. Grilling the mushrooms over medium-high to high heat for about 10 minutes will create a bold, charred taste that complements the wine’s richness.

Tastes of the World With Pinot Noir

Pinot noir is a highly versatile wine, making it excellent to pair with dishes that take your taste buds on a world tour. With complex notes, this wine works well with recipes that have equally bold flavors. Regardless of your favorite international fare, a glass of pinot noir will probably complement it. Try these vegetarian recipes to pair with red wine.
• Vegan enchiladas: Make vegan enchiladas filled with corn, kale, mushrooms, onions and diced butternut squash for a tangy complement to pinot noir. If you’re making a vegetarian variety, feel free to pair the veggies wrapped in corn tortillas with crema. To make a vegan version of the cream, soak a cup of cashews, drain them and add them to a food processor. Blend them with a teaspoon of white vinegar, two tablespoons of lime juice, a teaspoon of smoked paprika and a teaspoon of salt.
• Green lentil curry: A green lentil curry uses fragrant spices to pair well with the herbal notes often found in a pinot noir. Put ginger, garlic, ground coriander, cumin and turmeric together for a flavorful and fragrant curry. Adding kale, carrots and green beans to green lentils makes a filling, delicious vegetarian- or vegan-friendly meal to pair with your wine.

Order Wine Online With Marketview Liquor for Your Wine and Food Pairing Recipes

If you’re ready to try pairing wine and food recipes, order wine online with Marketview Liquor. Our selections include various wines, so you’re sure to find what you need for your wine pairing recipes, whether you shop by the case or the bottle. We make it easy to prepare for your next meal with wine shipped directly to your door. And once you order your wine, be sure to check our wine storing and serving guide to enjoy everything at the perfect temperature.

Browse our wine offerings today and order everything you need for your next wine-paired meal.Most cities and states are currently under a shelter-in-place order to flatten the curve of COVID-19. With local restaurants and bars shut down and social distancing in place, most people probably feel the impact of social isolation. However, you can still connect and foster social connections with your friends, co-workers and family while following these new rules by hosting a virtual happy hour.

A virtual happy hour is like a typical in-person happy hour except that you host it online through a video platform. This allows you to have a virtual happy hour with co-workers and friends while maintaining social distancing.

If you want to experience some social connection and add a sense of normalcy to your life, then choose a video platform such as Zoom, Skype or Google Hangout and send out some virtual invites. Try to keep the virtual happy hour for work or friends to less than 20 people so that everyone has a chance to talk and participate.

Also, just like an in-person party, make sure your invites share the specific day, time and how to join the happy hour. Don’t forget to include the agenda or theme if there is one!

Here are some ideas for hosting your virtual happy hour:
• Make sure everyone is using the “grid” or “gallery view”: This way, everyone can see each other at the same time as if you were gathered together in-person.
• Add some music: Music can help set the mood. Consider creating a special playlist for your virtual happy hour or softly stream some of your favorite songs in the background.
• Keep the topics lighthearted: Remember, you are doing this to connect and have some fun. Instead of dwelling on heavy topics, stick with lighthearted ones so that it is a positive distraction for you and others.
• Play some virtual happy hour games: Just because you, your friends and family are apart, doesn’t mean you can’t have some fun! Incorporate some games such as trivia, truth or dare or classic drinking games to keep everyone entertained. Apps such as Houseparty even allow you to chat and play video games with your friends.
• Consider some virtual happy hour activities: Get your guests more involved by having them all create a themed drink for the event. You can even replicate a cooking show by having each guest create and share their favorite at-home mixed drinks or recipes. You and your guests can also do fun activities such as yoga, dancing or fitness routines while online together.

Order Your Happy Hour Wine and Liquor From Marketview Liquor

At Marketview Liquor, you can browse our wide selection of wines and spirits for your virtual happy hour. We offer our selections online either by the case or bottle, and we can ship it right to your home.

If you have any questions about our wine and liquor offerings, please let us know so you can start planning your next virtual happy hour!Buying a bottle of red or white wine can be exciting enough, but that’s just where the adventure of enjoying wine begins. The real fun comes from owning and sharing new finds and old favorites.

Of course, the trick to feeling confident when offering wine to guests is understanding the proper ways to store and serve each bottle. You also need to ensure that you pair the wine correctly. Take our Wine Pairing Quiz to find the perfect pairing for your occasion.

What Temperature Should Wine Be Stored At?

After ordering some bottles of wine for home delivery, you should always make sure that you have a good set-up for storing the wine. Unless you are planning to uncork it on the day it arrives, you will need to put it someplace cool.

Generally speaking, red and white wines do best when stored at around 55°F. Most refrigerators are far too cold, hovering closer to the 35°F mark. This means that unless you have a professional wine cellar, you will need to put your wine bottles in a more temperate zone, such as a basement, semi-heated garage, cool closet floor or a commercial wine refrigerator.

Why do you need to store wines at a middle-of-the-road temperature? They age better that way. Too cold, and the aging process slows to a crawl, meaning the wine may taste too bitter or tart. If your wine is stored in hot zones, it could take on murky, muddy or thick flavors that overshadow its perkier undertones.

Wine can go bad after long periods in too-warm storage, or when corked bottles are not stored horizontally to keep the cork damp and oxygen out of the bottle.

What Temperature Should Wine Be Served At?

When you are ready to serve your wine, you should be just as conscientious as you were with its storage. First, consider if you are serving white or red wine.

White wines are traditionally served a little chillier than red wines, although this can be a matter of personal preference. Still, most white wines do well with a chill-down of about 15-30 minutes in the refrigerator or an ice bucket before serving. Sparkling white wines do well even colder than other white counterparts, as their crispness erupts at near-freezing temperatures of about 45°F.

Conventional wisdom recommends serving red wines at room temperature. However, “room temperature” is not a very precise term, as some homes maintain 65°F while others are set at a balmier 75°F. Both temperatures are probably a little too high for getting the most out of a red wine, with the possible exception of some Malbecs, Red Bourdeauxs, Zinfandels, Syrahs and similar varietals.

Red wines are at their best when they are served at around 55°F, the same temperature for their storage. This allows their full-bodied nature to play through with just a hint of coolness on the palate.

What Is the Shelf Life of Well-Stored Red and White Wine?

Contrary to popular belief, not all wine should be aged for years and years. The majority of wine on the market is meant to be drunk within a few years of making. Wines without corks are ready to go immediately, and those with corks can age for a little while if needed. At the end of the day, the best advice is to simply plan for short-term storage of your wines, then buy more wine as you start to run low!

Ready to find your next amazing bottle of wine? Browse our collection of red and white varietals at Marketview Liquor.Kicking back in your recliner with a lovely glass of Chardonnay? Enjoying some BYOB wine you purchased online at a favorite local bistro?

Whether at home or on the go, you should always stay aware of the alcohol content of the wine you drink. In fact, as you become more appreciative of the wonderful world of wine, you will begin to pay more attention to each bottle’s alcohol content. After all, without alcohol, you would basically be sipping a sophisticated glass of grape juice without much structure or body.

To help you get a handle on the alcohol content of your preferred wines, we have developed a quick primer on what alcohol content is, how to gauge it and why it matters.

What Is the Average Alcohol Content in Wine?

The alcohol content in any wine is advertised as ABV, which stands for “alcohol by volume.” ABV is designated by a percentage, indicating how much alcohol is present out of 100%.

Most wines fall somewhere between about 6-16% ABV, which is a broad range considering that many bottles of beer are around 4-5%, sake hovers around 20% and some whiskeys can hit 50% or more.

The alcohol content in both red and white wine varietals depends on a few factors. The first is, not surprisingly, the maturity of the grapes.

Grapes that are allowed to ripen on the vine for long periods tend to have more sugars. By the time they are picked, their high sugar content allows them to be converted into wines with higher levels of alcohol content.

The fermentation process also plays a role in a wine’s final ABV rating. The longer wines ferment and the more sugars the grapes naturally contain, the higher the percentage of ABV. Sugar will continue to convert to alcohol until the winemaker decides the wine has reached its peak.

Finally, climate comes into the picture. Wines from warmer parts of the world often rate higher for average alcohol content, regardless of whether they are reds, whites or rosés. You will likely find that a bottle of wine from sunny Australia might contain more alcohol per volume than a comparable wine created from grapes hailing from cooler northern Germany soil.

Can You Judge the Alcohol Content of Wine by Taste?

Many people who become familiar with wines get to a point where they can taste how much alcohol is in a glass. Alcohol produces a sense of heat and intensity on the palate. As a result, a red wine that feels hot in the back of the throat probably has a higher ABV than a white wine that leaves no lingering hotness in the mouth.

As you become more acquainted with wine types, you may notice that the harmony of a wine with higher ABV balances differently than a wine with lower ABV. Take the time to sniff and sip your wines, and you will begin to get better at estimating a wine’s likely ABV.

One note of caution: winemakers are allowed a range of about 1.5% difference between a wine’s advertised and true ABV. If you really want a wine that falls under 12%, for instance, be sure to get one that promotes its ABV as 10.5% to be on the safe side.

Shop Varietals of Wine to Try in Each ABV Category

Want a fast way to figure out what type of wine to drink based on alcohol content? Low ABV wines of less than 12.5% ABV include most German Rieslings, a few rosés and all sparkling wines.

Moving up to around 13% ABV are Pinot Grigio and Chianti varietals from Italy, as well as Rieslings from New York. If you want to bump your ABV to closer to 14%, choose warm-region Merlots, California Sauvignon Blanc or Chilean Chardonnay.

Of course, if full-bodied taste regardless of a high ABV is what you seek, head to intense, sweet, fruity or bold Italian Amarone, sherry from Spain or California Zinfandel.

Make sure that you pair your wine correctly by taking our Wine Pairing Quiz.

Looking for the ideal bottle to stock your wine collection or give to a friend, neighbor, coworker or client over 21 years old? Visit Marketview Liquor for our selection of wines from around the globe.In the world of wine terms, few are as important yet misunderstood as “vintage.”

Written on labels then placed on shelves at your local liquor store, what does it mean for a wine to be “vintage.” Is it aged? Old? Experiencing a sudden resurgence among trendy wine drinkers?

It turns out, what makes wine vintage is far, far simpler.
• Which Is Better: Vintage or Non-Vintage Wine?
• When Does a Wine’s Vintage Not Matter?
• How Do Producers Manage Their Vintages?
• When Should I Buy Vintage or Non-Vintage Wines?

Wine vintage refers to the year grapes were harvested. Weather and growing conditions vary between seasons, so each wine vintage offers a unique taste and quality.

Finding a bottle’s vintage is relatively straightforward. Simply look for the year printed on the front of the bottle. This number tells you when the grapes inside were ripened, plucked and perfected for drinkers like you to enjoy.

What’s more, wine labels with the world “single vintage” denote a bottle made exclusively from grapes from a single harvest or crop. Depending on the producing country, that ratio must be comprised of 75 to 95% same-crop grapes to legally use the term “single vintage.” As long as a producer abides by that percentage, they can label their bottle as vintage.

Yes, it’s that simple. Where wine novices to certified sommeliers get caught up is how to accurately define a “good” vintage — which we’ll explore below.

There are several key reasons to understand vintages, specifically how those years relate to the region a wine was produced in.
• It signals a bottle’s quality: Understanding vintages lets you discern the quality of a bottle of wine even before trying it. This is because a bottle’s flavors, textures, mouthfeel, aroma and bouquets are fundamentally shaped by its weather and climate conditions during its specific growing season. Since vintage tells you what year those grapes grew, you get an accurate distinction between “good” crop years yielding delicious, balanced wines from “bad” crop years thwarted by poor weather.
• It provides hints for taste and aroma: Vintage wines generally express specific signatures or traits. Drinking vintage wines allows you then to pair specific weather conditions with their end-result flavors and aromas, which can help you determine what kind of wine characteristics you generally enjoy most.
• It signals the mix of grape varietals inside: To be labeled “vintage,” the contents of a bottle must be sourced from 75-95% of the same grape crop. That means three-fourths of a bottle comes from grapes grown at the same time. It does not mean those grapes are identical varietals. Vintage wine blends can contain many different grape varietals mixed and matched together, so long as they were all grown and harvested in the same year.

Non-vintage wines are wines blending grapes from multiple crops. As a result, they will not have a year printed on the label, or will simply have “N.V.” to denote the fact its contents are not from a single harvest.

Non-vintage wine quality will vary, as with vintage wines. Many are lauded for consistency and cost-consciousness, though, representing a good value for more casual wine drinking.

Which Is Better: Vintage or Non-Vintage Wine?

It depends on what you’re looking for.

There are fantastic bottles of both single vintages and non-vintages available online and in liquor stores. Non-vintages will offer more diversity and flexibility, particularly when it comes to blends combining several complementary grape varietals to produce a creative new favorite. In contrast, vintages provide a deep-dive into a specific wine region, a micro-climate and even a winemaker’s bottling skills and expertise in ways non-vintages can’t.

Several variables go into determining if a vintage is “good.”

Remember, though, that good wine is often subjective, blurring the taste, aroma, tannin and acidity preferences of the drinker with the objective quality of the harvested grapes and a winemaker’s vinification techniques.

Your preferences may or may not actually align with what the experts herald as a great vintage. Yet knowing what criteria sommeliers and similar wine enthusiasts use to make that call can help you deepen your wine knowledge and selection process.

First and foremost, a good vintage is a reflection of a successful growing season where ideal weather conditions harmonized to produce abundant, flavorful and healthy grapes.

The wine producer assesses these grapes and determines if their harvest holds both the quality and quantity necessary to create single vintages.
• Northern hemisphere: In North America, Europe and much of Asia, grape growing season lasts from April to late October.
• Southern hemisphere: In South America, Australia, New Zealand and most of Africa, it’s the opposite, with grape growing season beginning in October and lasting till April.

In both hemispheres, it’s the spring, summer and autumn months most responsible for the final quality and characteristics of the grapes. More specifically, for grapes to ripen into single-vintage-worthy batches, the weather across the seasons must typically exhibit these conditions.
• Spring: Frost is the largest enemy of spring grape buds and flowers, particularly in the Northern Hemisphere. While chillier weather is necessary for some grape varietals, such as German Rieslings, too much stunts grape development and could kill portions of a vineyard’s fragile flowering buds.
• Summer: The majority of grape varietal types thrive with modest amounts of rainfall tempered by both direct and indirect sunlight. Ideal summer conditions for vintages balance this rain-and-shine ratio perfectly. Too much rain causes potential rot and fungal diseases in the grapes and vines themselves while too little can actually trigger grape dormancy, with the fruit waiting for milder weather before fully ripening. This offsets the entire grape-growing timeline and potentially inhibits a bountiful end-of-season harvest.
• Fall: Autumn in both hemispheres signals grape harvest time. In these pivotal final two to three months, grapes often require milder temperatures and gentle rainfall to preserve concentrations, stave off rot and fully ripen on time for collection.

There are exceptions to these grape growing conditions and seasons, such as cabernet sauvignon, which requires dry, warm and sunny climates to mature fully.

Of all grape climate variables, sunshine is the most critical in determining whether a harvest can produce single vintages or not.
• Proper amounts of sunshine encourage slow but steady grape ripening, developing a varietal’s signature palate between acidity, tannin and sweetness.
• Too little sunshine or too much rain slows grape maturity and causes imbalanced flavors, vine rot and even disease.

The ideal climate balance necessary for good vintages continues with temperature.

As a worldwide rule of thumb, the majority of grape varietals require 150 to 170 growing days of temperatures exceeding 50°F to develop from bud to flower to fruit.
• Uncharacteristically hot weather expedites most varietal’s maturation, causing them to produce more sugars. Overly sugared grapes tend to succumb to flat, one-note and dimensionless palates.
• Uncharacteristically cold weather triggers the opposite. Grapes without enough warmth cannot nurture proper sugar ratios, resulting in harsher, even acidic profiles.

Under a few circumstances, yes, selecting vintage wine is preferred over a non-vintage wine or blend.

1. If the Wine Comes From a Variable Climate

Part of what makes wine vintage so special is the way a single vintage tells the story of its past year — and will never tell that same story again.

From rain, frost and humidity to sunshine, soil nutrition and air quality, vintage wine bottles provide the best time snapshot of a particular region’s climates at a particular point in time. These characteristics work into the grapes themselves, causing significant variability in yields and production. One good year in one area may not continue with the next.

Wine-growing regions known for their variable climates exist in both the New and Old World. Sourcing vintages from these places offers opportunities to understand the unique growing conditions and climates of these more unpredictable vines, transporting you to these areas without the expensive plane ticket. Some of these notable climate-variable wine regions include:

Even novice collectors with only a handful of bottles should pay attention to vintages. Having a selection of wines across the years shows the attention and detail you place on a well-rounded wine cellar in your own home.

Plus, collecting quality vintages from the most renowned wine-producing regions in the world is your ticket to understanding these regions and varietals themselves. From the illustrious green hills of Bordeaux and Burgundy to the chiseled, mountainside vineyards of Chile to the golden plateaus of Australia, every wine-producing region has distinct traits and characteristics to offer that are often best showcased through their single vintages.

In short, you stock your personal wine collection with the best of the best by sourcing renowned vintages from around the world.

When Does a Wine’s Vintage Not Matter?

Again, there isn’t an inherent superiority between vintage and non-vintage wines. Your choice will vary by varietal preference, budget and the general situation you’re buying the wine for.

To keep things simple, though, opt for a non-vintage wine in the following circumstances.

Commercialized wines from large producers purposefully create their bottles to be identical across the years.

At their scale, quantity and uniformity are prioritized. Large producers will, therefore, manipulate everything from pH and residual sugar to natural flavors, total acidity and alcohol content, ensuring each bottle is identical to the next in the case. For this reason, give less weight to “vintages” or years printed on mass-produced wine brands.

2. If the Wine Comes From a Stable Climate

Consistent climates yield more consistent crops. Therefore, regions with generally sunny skies, temperate weather and moderate seasonal rain nurture equally predictable crops with a smaller chance for vintage variations.

 Such climates producing consistently styled wines include but aren’t limited to:

3. If You Love a Certain Region’s Varietal Already

No need to overthink things here. If you love Loire Valley Chenin Blancs, then get a Loire Valley Chenin Blanc regardless of the vintage or acclaim.

Sure, it’s enjoyable and educational to explore that varietal over the years. You’ll notice subtle differences when you do so. But in the end, if your taste buds have a particular affinity for a specific type of red or white wine, they won’t be biased because of numbers on a bottle.

How Do Producers Manage Their Vintages?

While the term “vintage” itself merely expresses the year the grapes were harvested, many winemakers embrace the nuance and variability that comes with year-to-year grape yields.

This means accepting both good and bad harvests, making the most of each to tell an honest story of the year.
• In good weather: A successful vintage based on a plentiful, rich harvest will lead a winemaker to produce more single-vintage wines rather than blends. When this is the case, a less-is-more mentality is typically called for, with producers letting the beautiful grapes speak for themselves with minimum cellar techniques or manipulation.
• In inclement weather:Even with advanced winemaking tools and technology, grapes are still at the mercy of nature. Less-than-ideal weather and climate conditions can be combated with several vinification and blending tricks. For example, adding particular strains of yeast can temper harsh acidity from under-ripe yields, while employing reverse osmosis can bring down sweetness or alcohol levels from too much sun exposure. Some producers may even include natural or artificial flavors to adjust a varietal’s palate, though still must maintain a 75 to 95% grape base.

In either case, a savvy winemaker knows when to play their cards and when to hold back to create a vintage they’re proud of.

Vintage wines that are cellared undergo ongoing chemical reactions that will last until a bottle is decanted.

These reactions are the result of continuous interactions between the wine’s alcohol, sugar and acid compounds, which mix in their sealed environment to coax new layers of flavors, textures and bouquets. These chemical interactions will continue until a bottle is opened. However, they’re far from random. The most skilled winemakers understand the chemistry behind aging wine and will manipulate the cellar environment to encourage various flavor and aroma nuances, resulting in a delicious, heady and good vintage.

To understand cellaring further, here’s what will — and won’t — happen when vintage wine is aged.

At least not much.

A wine’s primary flavors will always be preserved regardless of cellaring timelines. These primary flavors are a direct result of the underlying grape varietal as well as the conditions the grapes grew in.

To illustrate, regardless of cellaring or not, you should always note the following dominant flavors in these varietal examples:

What aging a vintage varietal will affect are the secondary and tertiary flavors and aromas. Both secondary and tertiary notes are derived from a winemaker’s unique brewing techniques as well as the chemical interactions between a wine’s natural compounds and oxygen molecules. These activities define aging wine. Therefore, it makes sense aging wine only really affects these layers of smells and flavors.

To use the examples from above, secondary flavors common in aged vintages range but might include:

Mouthfeel, or the way a wine feels as you drink, will also change as a wine ages.

Generally speaking, red and white vintages will have mouthfeel developments as follows:
• White vintages, especially dry whites like sauvignon blanc and chardonnay, tend to become oily, heavy and stickier over the years.
• Red vintages, especially those with naturally high tannin levels such as Nebbiolo, syrah or cabernet sauvignon, tend to soften with time. “Softened” tannins are those which have chemically mixed and matched with one another, forming weighty chains that reduce the total tannin surface area. These chains then sink to the bottom of a bottle and form sediment deposits, many of which you can see. As a result of sediment forming, sips are smoother, less sharp and less prickly, resulting in a gentler drinking experience.

Color is a third and final characteristic affected by aging vintages.

To tell if a red vintage has been properly aged, first look to its rim, or the outer edge where the wine pour meets the glass. Rims that are lighter indicate an aged red wine, whereas a murky or opaque rim signals a younger bottle.

Second, look at the color of the red vintage itself. As red wines oxidize with age, their colors often muddle from deep shades of ruby-purple to softened mauves and then tawny, deep browns.

In comparison, white vintages tend to move from paler, straw-yellow shades to deeper golden hues. White vintages aged three or more years can eventually darken to the point of turning a golden amber color.

These color alterations are contingent on oxidation. When properly sealed before cellaring, the only oxygen in a bottle will be the small amount trapped in the bottle’s neck as well as what little oxygen can pass through the cork or seal. Most cellared red and white vintages will be sealed with a traditional cork, which allows minimal oxygen to permeate. However, given that cork is itself a natural rather than uniform, human-made product, oxygen permeation will vary significantly even between bottles cellared and cased at the same time.

To have the most enjoyable vintage wine tasting experience possible, consider these vintage varietals known to age well.

The majority of red wine types will age well, given the naturally higher presence of tannins. However, not all reds age equally.

Red vintages resulting in concentrated, bolder flavor profiles, heavier mouthfeels and medium-high acidity and alcohol content are revered as the champions of cellaring. This combination of characteristics from a given year’s yield is a recipe for aging success, allowing winemakers to coax truly complicated yet refined cases for consumers like you.

Again, the quality of a vintage itself will be contingent on a grape’s growing conditions. For concentrated, medium-high acidity red wines, look for these regions and varietals:

Like red wines, vintages from these regions are known for their aging finesse:

Keep in mind some countries, notably Italy, Spain and Portugal, have legal standards a wine must meet to be called a vintage. When seeking a specific region’s vintages, look for bottles with these terms:

When Should I Buy Vintage or Non-Vintage Wines?

Picking between a vintage or a non-vintage wine is ultimately your call.

You may be attracted to the idea of drinking only heralded bottles from specific regions with exceptional yields — and that’s great! On the other hand, you might want to keep things simple and grab whatever varietal or brand jumps out at you regardless of labels.

To make your decision smoother, we’ve got a few suggestions for when to drink vintage and non-vintage wines.

Look for bottles labeled “vintage,” “Reserva” or “Riserva” if:
• You’re buying port: Vintage port wines are prized. In fact, experts note as many as five years can pass before northern Portugal — where port grapes grow — yields harvests worthy of the title. Additionally, port must be oak-aged a minimum of two years before its quality is assessed, extending the anticipation over a year’s vintage label or not. Jump at the chance when you see a proper port Reserva. A lot of work — and good fortune — went into that.
• It’s a special occasion: Birthdays, anniversaries, retirements and holidays call for unique vintage wines to commemorate the special occasion.
• When you’re giving a gift: Go the extra mile by gifting a good vintage red or white wine. The recipient may not know what a good vintage wine is, but they’ll certainly appreciate the effort and attention you put into sourcing a special bottle.
• Because you want to try it: Is there any better reason?
• You’re buying in bulk: Hosting a large party, cocktail hour or big celebratory bash? When cases of wine are called for, it’s easier to stock up on more commercial wines or vineyard cases rather than seeking the best vintages.
• You’re looking for something quick and easy: Non-vintages fill the shelves of nearly any liquor, grocery or convenience store, making it a go-to grab for your home bar cart.
• You’re on a budget: Vintage wines are not always more expensive. In fact, it’s a common misconception that drinking vintages means spending outrageous amounts on your bottle selections. However, many of the most economical wines on the market come from mass-producing wineries — ones with recipes precisely calculated to produce near-identical bottles across the years. When uniformity is the goal, it makes sense to stick with the more cost-effective non-vintages you’re already familiar with.

Marketview Liquor makes finding high-quality wines easy. Whether you’re looking for unique vintages to celebrate a special occasion or a case of non-vintages for everyday drinking, we can ship wine right to your door.

Explore our vintage and non-vintage wine catalog today to place your order.Whether you’re a wine enthusiast or just gaining interest in trying different flavors, a wine tasting is the ultimate learning experience. Wineries across the country are open multiple days a week to help educate and serve you with original aromas and pairings. The process of tasting wines will change depending on the venue, but proper etiquette should be in order.

If you’re headed to your first wine tasting, there’s no need to be nervous. Marketview Liquor is here with the “do’s and don’ts” of your first visit.

A wine tasting is a set time for consumers to visit a winery and try out some locally fermented drinks. The goal for the winery or store is to allow individuals to engage with various wines to potentially generate a sale.

Not all wineries look the same or serve the same products, and that’s where the fun begins. A wine tasting is the best way to discover what you enjoy and what you do not. You have the freedom to try wines with an array of backgrounds without committing to an entire bottle.

After you arrive at the winery with a reservation, a server will greet you with several options to try. Slowly, you’ll receive samples throughout the tasting. Smell the wine before sipping, and observe the color and clarity of each serving.

Your host might even offer you a tour of the winery to get a closer look at how wine is made and the materials involved in the process.

Aside from setting a reservation, you should consider a number of tips prior to driving to a tasting. Always wear comfortable but respectful clothing for tours and visits. Wineries are considered classy environments, so dressing as if you’re going to an elegant dinner is a good call.

You should consider weather-appropriate clothing for each tasting occasion as well. Research the winery beforehand to better understand if you’ll be indoors or outdoors, then dress accordingly. Additionally, never arrive to a wine tasting on an empty stomach. You want to remember your favorite wines throughout the visit, so arrive to the winery after eating a full meal if you decide not to spit or dump between glasses.

For your first tasting, remember that these visits are supposed to be fun! Make an effort to try new types of wine that you’ve never had before. It’s perfectly normal to ask your server questions if you’re unfamiliar with a particular wine.

Remember to take notes and record what you like and don’t like throughout a wine tasting. Wineries almost always have bottles available for purchase, so this is your chance to order something you like for when you return home.

Always hold your wine glass by the stem during a tasting. Holding the bowl of the glass clouds the outer surface and can alter the ideal sampling temperature of the wine. You want to be observant with each glass of wine, and being able to see the color of each serving is a part of the experience.

If you plan on attending multiple wineries in one day, you need to plan ahead. Depending on the winery, it’s perfectly acceptable to spit or dump samples even if you enjoy them. Making use of tasting buckets will help you monitor your consumption and get the most out of your visit. Always be sure to drink responsibly.

The only way to gain an opinion on a particular wine is to try it for yourself. Marketview Liquor offers a full range of wines available to be shipped directly – you can even mix or match a case to make it easier to test out a new wine. Make sure that you pair your wines correctly as well by taking our Wine Pairing Quiz. In addition, if you are in the Rochester, New York area, check out one of our upcoming tasting events!<

 Those numbers you spot when shopping for wine? That’s a wine’s “score,” and it relays how that particular bottle’s characteristics fare within a set wine point system standardizing the wider industry.

What is the point system used for wine? Where did it start, who gives the ratings and how do points affect pricing, production and more? And — perhaps most importantly — should you even care about wine ratings in the first place?

Get the 4-1-1 on the 100-point wine scoring system with this guide — ideally, while you’re sipping your favorite varietal.
• How Did the 100-Point Wine Rating System Begin?
• The Purpose of the Wine-Scoring System
• What If a Bottle of Wine Doesn’t Have a Number?
• How to Pick the Best Wine
• Explore the Wine Point System for Yourself

What is the wine point system, and how does it work? The wine rating scale is a 100-point-based system. A higher score reflects a consensus from various wine experts that a bottle is of excellent quality, whereas low scores — logically— denote an average or less-than-stellar bottle.

Wine ratings are more a point of reference than an official decree. Consumers like you can use the numbers to weed out specific bottles when browsing wine in a store or online, to compare identical varietals from different producers or to have fun testing your palate against the “experts.” In any case, wine ratings are ultimately subjective — a helpful tool to take and use as you wish.

How Did the 100-Point Wine Rating System Begin?

The wine rating system out of 100 that is so well-known today began in the 1980s, when respected wine writer and critic Robert Parker established a scorecard to review his wine-tasting assignments consistently.

Parker’s approach was pragmatic. Given the many characteristics expressed in a single glass of wine — and the amount of wine his job required him to taste — Parker needed a standardized system to base his judgments on. According to lore, he used a familiar, school-based grading scale as inspiration for his methodology. Like a math or spelling test, grades in the 90s or above are exceptional, while 80 to 89 are passing or above average and wines below 70 are a miss.

Initially, fellow wine critics admonished Parker’s scorecard for oversimplifying the wine-tasting experience. However, Parker’s method soon gained traction across premier publications like Wine Spectator, Decanter, Wine Enthusiast and many more, leading to its establishment as the leading wine-scoring and -ranking system used globally. Consumers and critics alike benefit from the numbers-based approach, giving a shared understanding behind the definition of a “good” bottle of wine.

Today, a high score — think 97 points or above — from a premier wine publication can be life-changing for the wine’s producer, bombarding them with orders and radically altering the production, scale and name-brand reputation of their vineyard.

The Purpose of the Wine-Scoring System

The idea behind a wine-rating scale is functional: to standardize wine-tasting information and consumption. Standardization does not mean to make the world of wine boring and uniform, or to remove the nuance, complexity and individual preferences and experiences associated with a successful wine tasting. Instead, the scorecard provides a quick and straightforward way for critics and consumers alike to have realistic expectations about their wine purchases.

Think of the 100-point wine-rating scale as a Rosetta Stone for communicating wine. Across languages, varietals, regions and tastes, the point system used in wine ensures everyone has an understanding of a bottle’s quality.

How Are Wines Rated and Scored?

How is wine rated with points? The 100-point wine-scoring system breaks down as follows.
• 96-100: Wines with a rating of 96 and above are in the upper echelons of quality. Experts across premier publications have approved these bottles almost unanimously as testaments to their varietals, producers and excellent wine in general. Receiving a ranking between 96 and 100 is one of the most significant accomplishments in the wine world.
• 90-95: Bottles rated in the 90-to-95 range come highly recommended by critics and consumers alike, representing a bottle with beautiful depth, character, flavor and bouquet.
• 85-89: Wines in the mid- to upper 80s demonstrate the quintessential characteristics of their region or varietal. They are often well-priced and above-average in quality, making them an ideal choice to pair with special meals and occasions without breaking the bank.
• 80-84: Bottles rated in the 80-to-84 range are best for everyday enjoyment, rather than celebratory events. Again, this rating indicates a solid bottle of wine suitable for casual drinking, but may not carry the finesse of higher-rated varieties.
• 70-79: Wines rated in the 70s meet the standards for drinkability. They check off the fundamental tenets for their varietal or region, but lack the depth, consistency, aroma, taste, finish and aging techniques of higher-rated bottles.
• Below 70: Experts generally consider bottles rated below 70 to have some critical flaws, and do not recommend them for consumption.

This numeric system relies on a bottle of wine receiving enough reviews from major wine publications, sommeliers, food critics, renowned wine blogs and others in the industry. The longer a bottle has been in production, the more reviews it’ll amass.

Together, a bottle’s scores across publications and reviews translate into that number you see when shopping for wine. Most liquor stores either advertise the rating from one specific publication such as Wine & Spirits Magazine or Wine Spectator, or will calculate a bottle’s average based on several publications’ reviews.

The 100-point wine rating system is not perfect. Many have pointed out that wine rated with rote numbers courts several inconsistencies, including the following.
• Subjectivity: The onus behind today’s ever-popular points-based system is to craft a concise, standardized way to review bottles of wine. It’s impossible, however, to prevent subjective biases from creeping into scoring — particularly for metrics like a wine’s overall bouquet, its primary and secondary aromas and the flavors the drinker tastes.
• Weight of points: Few wines get rated under 85 points . As some critics have noted, if a system categorizes the vast majority of bottles in a narrow range that’s nearly always above average, it defeats the purpose of the entire ranking system. What’s more, bottles rated in the low 80s or below rarely broadcast that score, since that would — in essence — signal their inferiority.
• Scale range: Parker’s scoring rubric awarded 50 points to every wine he tasted. That means every bottle automatically begins with a baseline of 50 points, working up from there. Again, critics believe it defeats the purpose of wine scoring if the system starts at the halfway range, rather than a neutral zero.
• Marketing side effect: Parker never intended for the wine points system to turn into a powerful mass-marketing tool. Today, though, new wines rated in the 96-to-100 range often trigger an all-out order deluge on the producing winery. Many are ill-equipped to handle that frenzy, which ultimately detracts from the quality of the very wines lauded as exceptional.
• Alongside Parker’s 100-point wine system, there are five-point and 20-point review methods where scoring starts at zero. These methods of rating wines remain less widespread than the 100-point scale, though.
• Winemakers took note as Parker’s wine rating and scoring system gained traction. Starting in the 1990s, some began tracking and analyzing the scoring patterns of major critics and publications. Wine producers then used that data to label their bottles “international style,” i.e., explicitly crafted to score well under Parker’s system. This phenomenon triggered what’s now known as the “Parkerization” of mass-marketed wines, with producers delivering products explicitly aimed at Parker’s perceived palate, rather than striving for uniqueness, creativity and nuance.

There are several major players in the wine industry responsible for generating the numeric scores you see when shopping for wine.
• Premier industry publications such as Wine & Spirits Magazine, Wine Spectator, Wine Advocate, Decanter Magazine, Vinous, The Wine Cellar, The Wine Cellar Insider and more write continual reviews of bottles using the wine rating scale as their guiding metric. Most liquor stores cite these publications for the bottle ratings you see advertised when browsing shelves.
• None Wine critics: Renowned wine critics at the top of their field also personally rate wines. Many release their rankings across proprietary publications, in books or in reviews for major wine magazines and websites. These influential critics include names like James Suckling, Jancis Robinson, Jamie Goode, Jeff Leve, Julia Harding, Antonio Galloni and many more.

Wine scoring occurs continually with publications and wine critics alike. Regardless of who’s performing the tasting, though, the wine-rating methodology goes as follows.
• Blind tasting: Wine scoring takes place blindly. Bottles have all labels and identifying branding removed, as well as their retail price. Reviewers pour samples into neutral, clear glasses to taste at their pace.
• Scorecard metrics: Most formal wine reviews will use an identical scorecard to guide tasting. Reviewers use the scorecard as a checklist for how to rate wines on a 100-point system, with a series of traits and criteria for each to analyze, then assign a numeric score to. These exact wine traits reviewers look for are detailed below, in the “What’s a Wine Score Based On?” section of this guide.
• Score calculation: There are two methods for calculating that number you see on a bottle at your local wine or liquor store. First, a store may choose to adopt a single publication’s or critic’s reviews, advertising their rating exclusively. Second, a store may calculate an average score for bottles based on several publications and critical reviews, then broadcast a weighted total.

An Essential Note on the Wine-Scoring System

In general, wine publications tend to provide scorecards for their reviewers to help standardize results and provide the most objective tasting possible.

However, reviewers can still introduce additional rubric elements, as well as note other subjective qualities not included on a set scorecard. The industry encourages tasters to prioritize the following during a formalized wine ranking:

Continue reading to understand how the wine point system works on a more profound level — specifically, the exact criteria tasters use to formally rank wine.

Parker’s 100-point wine-rating system emphasizes the following traits. Explore each characteristic the next time you open a bottle of your favorite cabernet sauvignon or chardonnay— or that never-before-tried fancy French Chenin Blanc you picked up just because.

A wine’s appearance is a broad, but essential, opening category when rating a bottle.

To appropriately gauge appearance, tasters will hold glasses by their stems, raising wine to eye level. Doing so allows a reviewer to assess the following.
• Core and rim: A wine’s core will be its main body color. Conversely, its rim is the topmost perimeter color, where the wine meets the edge of the glass. Both core and rim colors mirror the quality of a varietal, as well as hint at possible aging techniques.
• Color: How are red wines rated? Every type of wine varietal — e.g., pinot noir, merlot, sauvignon blanc, etc. — has an associated color scheme. While shades and hues will vary based on the varietal’s region as well as how aged the wine is, reviewers will note how well their sample’s color represents its varietal’s nature.
• Viscosity: The best way to assess a wine’s viscosity is to give the contents of your glass a good swirl. Watch to see how quickly or slowly wine droplets move down the glass. The more slowly they move, the more viscosity — or “legs” — the wine has, which generally indicates higher ABV as well as a sweeter wine.
• Opacity: Opacity refers to how clear or dense a wine looks in its glass. Again, specific varietals should be more opaque than others, indicating differences in their care and quality.

A wine’s consistency, often referred to as its “mouthfeel,” is a broad term that identifies how a wine feels on your tongue as you drink. The most common traits associated with a wine’s mouthfeel or consistency include the following.
• None Body: Wines can be light, medium or full-bodied. Red wines tend to have bigger bodies, or feel stronger and weightier as you drink, whereas white wines and roses are typically lighter-bodied.
• Density: Dense wines might feel heavier, prickly or more astringent, causing a sensation many describe as “chewy.” On the other hand, light wines may feel leaner or juicier to drink.

A wine’s “nose” refers to how it smells, or its total olfactory profile.

Tasters use two primary categories to identify a good-quality nose on a glass of wine, as well as the complexity and balance of these overall smells.
• Bouquet: A wine’s bouquet is the specific aromas you smell after opening the bottle. It is a unique experience more open to subjective perceptions.
• Aromas: A wine’s aroma is varietal-specific, meaning some types of wine will have specific smells associated with each. Aromas are more objective and universal.

Taste is one of the defining qualities for rating wine — for understandable reasons. What reviewers taste will be subjective, but rating scorecards outline a few definitive tasting metrics.
• Acidity, dryness and sweetness: Acidity, dryness and sweetness are three essential qualities for any type of wine. It’s possible to define many varietals by these traits. For example, white zinfandels are notoriously sweet, while sauvignon blanc is one of the driest types of wine available.
• Primary flavors: Primary flavors include the fruits, vegetables, herbs, spices and other food notes a wine is reminiscent of. Common flavor examples include things like berries, currants, tobacco, chocolate, cherries and leather.
• Intensity: Tasters will note the depth and strength of a wine’s primary flavors, as well as where those flavors hit on the tongue.
• None Balance: A well-balanced wine displays appropriate levels of tannin, sweetness, acidity and alcohol. Balance is one of the critical factors in determining a wine’s awarded points.
• Depth: Wines with depth are vibrant and multidimensional, whereas those lacking depth may taste flat or one-noted.
• Aftertaste: A wine’s aftertaste includes its final flavors as well as how long its taste lasts in your mouth, i.e., its finish. A long finish tends to correlate with higher-quality wines, not because the wine itself is stronger, but because its flavors are multifaceted and well-rounded.

Another broad, but essential, term, complexity refers to how dynamic a wine’s drinking experience is. For example, a complex wine will display several primary flavors and aromas alongside appropriate tannin levels, acidity, sweetness and alcohol, wrapped up in a long-lasting, balanced finish.

Critics use wine complexity as a bit of a catch-all. In general, complexity describes the overall impression a wine leaves you with. While imprecise and open to subjectivity, it remains a critical factor in the wine point system.

Experts will also consider how well a bottle represents its varietal, or the grape types used to make it.

Every grape varietal contains a unique set of characteristics. Well-trained palates learn to discern these core characteristics and can often identify a varietal blindly, without anyone telling them what type of wine they’re drinking. Those holding advanced sommelier certificates must undergo several rounds of such blind taste tests before earning their accolades.

When rating wine, drinkers must have some background on the nature of that varietal to compare the individual bottle to. This knowledge gives credence to the final rating, signifying a bottle is an excellent representation of its namesake grapes.

Last but not least, wine reviewers can make notes on how they believe a winery could improve its product. While this stage of a wine ranking does introduce personal bias, esteemed critics and publications take every precaution to be specific in their suggestions, recommending improvements that are fair and actionable, rather than pure opinion.

Remember that you, as a consumer, get the final say on wines to enjoy. The rating scale is merely a reference tool meant to help distinguish and discern bottles amid the sometimes overwhelming choices available to consumers today. All tastes and scores are, ultimately, subjective — never a mandate signaling to drink or not to drink.

What If a Bottle of Wine Doesn’t Have a Number?

Unrated wines do not mean a bottle is so bad it doesn’t deserve a number. Instead, wines without a rating can be due to several situations:
• It’s a freshly produced vintage no major publication or critic has reviewed yet.
• It’s an exclusively produced wine, available only in specific regions, stores or retailers.

How to Pick the Best Wine

Selecting the best wine possible doesn’t need to be complicated. Keep in mind any of these wine-choosing tips and tricks next time you’re shopping for a few bottles, then feel more confident with your purchase.
• Consider the occasion: Will this be your go-to nightcap, a casual drink with friends, something to impress the in-laws, etc.?
• Think of any on-deck food pairings: Are you serving wine with a meal or enjoying it as a stand-alone beverage?
• Understand varietals: Know the types of wines you prefer, as well as where they’re from — then get selective.

Only after these considerations should you reference a bottle’s point ranking, ultimately going with your gut.

Explore the Wine Point System for Yourself

Take all wine point systems and ratings with a grain of salt. The wine world is constantly evolving, as are the trending flavors and varietals. In the end, a good wine is one you enjoy drinking. It’s that simple. Really.

Use our “By Points” filter to shop for wines based on critical ratings. Or, browse our extensive online wine catalog according to other preferences like wine type, price, region — even case discounts for select bottles.

It’s a good idea to ensure that you are pairing your rated wine well. Take our Wine Pairing Quiz to find the perfect pairing for your next bottle.

Try top-rated wines from Marketview Liquor and order online today for home delivery.Whether you’re a wine expert or just getting into the variety of flavors, there’s nothing like a good bottle of wine. Enthusiasts travel great distances to find the perfect match for their taste buds, but finding an excellent-tasting wine can be somewhat of a process. Pairing the wine can be challenging as well. So take our Wine Pairing Quiz and let Mike help you with finding your best wine pairing.

What makes a wine taste good, and is there a way to know this information prior to pouring?

Marketview Liquor wants to help you on your quest for favorable wines. Through active observation of key details, you can understand wine far beyond the marketing on the label.

Ideally, you’ll be able to taste wine to decide if its traits are desirable enough for a refill. If you get the opportunity, taste wine with intensity and length of flavor in mind. A “good” wine will treat your taste buds and leave a lingering flavor with each sip.

If you find the dry or sweet taste pleasant, the wine is well-balanced in flavoring components. The best-tasting wines have a solid mixture of fruit, sweetness, tannin, minerals, acidity and alcohol based on category. One overriding ingredient is enough to throw off the balance and create a wine that’s unpleasant to drink.

Deciding whether a wine is exceptional or not boils down to its complexity of taste. A serving of wine should act like a journey for your palate. You should be able to tell that a wine is high-end by how difficult it is to identify its exact flavors.

A simple wine won’t take long to figure out. Complex wines will challenge you to try to describe everything you taste without one component overwriting the rest. The complexity of a wine is a top indicator of quality because it’s a reflection of the fermenting process.

Price point is a tough factor in the debate of good vs. bad wine. How expensive a wine is mostly relates to how much care and attention is involved in the fermenting of a product. However, wine producers may alter the price of their wine out of greed.

Generally, high-end wines cost more money upfront than a poor-tasting wine, but you should always approach this principle with caution. Winemakers have a say in how pricey their production methods are, and price point can be a reflection of prestige and overall availability of the wine.

How to Tell a Good Wine by the Label

In most cases, you won’t have the chance to sample wine before making a purchase. Do yourself a favor and perform a label checklist to determine the quality of the wine.

High-end and flavorful wines have no problem displaying grape variety, origin and age on the front of the label. Look for specific locations regarding fermenting procedures to guide your search. Simply writing the state where a wine comes from doesn’t say much, but focused valleys, vineyards and counties will give you a clear picture of the ingredients in each sip.

Another key factor in deciphering wine character is the alcohol percentage. The majority of wines are in the range of 11%–15% alcohol by volume, but your choice should be relative to what you hope to taste in your glass. Wines that are lower than 11% are sweeter, and those above 15% can carry an intense bite that tastes like jam.

Shop for wines that are between 14% and 15% alcohol for well-balanced mixtures. While all wines differ in the makeup of ingredients, this is an effective detail for beginners just entering the wine industry.

Marketview Liquor is your one-stop online shop for wine and spirits. With an impressive inventory, we want to keep the wine-tasting experience exciting for all. Be sure to check out our highly rated wines for your next get-together.

Browse Marketview Liquor online today for more information about our products and servicesSauvignon blanc isn’t like any other type of white wine — and it doesn’t want to be.

Zippy, dry and full of earthy “green” flavors, sauvignon blanc is a refreshingly unique type of white wine boasting more than 30 years of explosive demand.

Explore this white wine type’s key characteristics, plus where it’s grown, food to pair it with and other serving and storage secrets to get the most out of your sauvignon blanc experience.

Sauvignon blanc is one of the world’s most popular white wine varietals.

Sharp, crisp, acidic and dry, sauvignon blanc presents a distinct palate and tasting experience for all who try a glass. The grape is considered a noble varietal, meaning it’s internationally recognized as a top-quality grape type capable of large-scale cultivation yet still expressing its unique terroir.

Sauvignon blanc itself means “wild white,” nodding to its lush, dense vine canopies and early ripening. The green-skinned varietal is now grown worldwide in a variety of cool and moderate climates, pairs well with dozens of foods and remains a bestseller on the consumer wine market.

Wondering how to pronounce sauvignon blanc? You’re not alone.

Sauvignon blanc is pronounced as “sah-veen-yohn-blahnk.” Drop the hard “k” when trying to be fancy and say it like the French, or stick with the well-accepted English phonetics. Now, next time you’re out to eat, you can order a glass of sauvignon blanc without fear!

Sauvignon blanc grapes are said to have originated somewhere in the Loire Valley and Bordeaux regions of France.

Both provinces carry a storied wine history and are the homes of many other noble varietals, including the rhyming cabernet franc. In fact, the regional origins of these two wines — sauvignon blanc and cabernet franc — are so intertwined, they’re actually the parent varietals of the world’s most popular red wine, cabernet sauvignon.

Sauvignon blanc was a well-kept French secret until the late 19th-century when select vine cuttings were transplanted to northern California by experimental winegrowers. Their choice to use cuttings from some of Bordeaux’s most reputable vineyards paid off. The thin-skinned grape prefers temperate weather, which prolongs bud development but ripes its fruits quickly. The result is sauvignon blanc’s signature early maturation.

Sauvignon blanc came into consumer consciousness starting in the late 1960s. Its explosion in popularity is widely accredited to California wine legend Robert Mondavi, who rebranded California sauvignon blanc as Fume Blanc. The oakier, heavier Fume Blanc remains in production today but is joined by a premier set of sauvignon blanc wine grown across nearly every major wine-producing region in the world.

Yet perhaps no country solidified sauvignon blanc’s claim to wine-fame more than New Zealand. The country’s top varietal, New Zealand sauvignon blancs are expressive, fruity and lush and have been mass cultivated since the mid-1980s, launching an even deeper sauvignon blanc frenzy that carries on today. Not bad for a humble varietal from central France.

Sauvignon blanc vines prefer sunny but moderate weather, letting their buds blossom late yet their fruits ripen early. This late-blossoming, early ripening balance is a hallmark of sauvignon blanc and one of the signature features winemakers master to produce this varietal across environments. Lucky for growers, sauvignon blanc grapes grow bountifully, producing generous — and sometimes overly dense — yields.

Regions most known for producing sauvignon blanc include:

After its September harvest, sauvignon blanc ferments in stainless steel tanks. The vast majority of this varietal will undergo stainless steel vat fermentation at “slow and low” temperatures between 42° to 50° F, preserving its sharp acidity while coaxing distinct fruit flavors. The slow-and-low method also allows sauvignon blanc’s chemical pyrazine compounds to flourish, producing this white wine’s unique herby, green characteristics.

In total, sauvignon blanc’s total harvesting, fermentation, filtering and bottling process can occur in as few as three to four months. The wine does well consumed young and doesn’t require much additional fermentation or racking. High-quality sauvignon blanc properly cellared can remain crisp and vibrant for years. However, it is still generally recommended to drink sauvignon blanc fresh to capture its full, bright acidity and earthy palate.

Sauvignon blanc’s vineyards span countries and climates. Its widespread cultivation means the white wine varietal carries distinct qualities depending on where it comes from — in taste and smell but also in subtler traits like acidity, mouthfeel and finish.

One description is guaranteed — sauvignon blanc wine is dry and zesty, with strong aromatic notes of flowers and vegetables. Beyond that, the fun begins.

Sauvignon blanc grapes grow best in sunny but temperate climates. Overexposure to heat muddles the grape’s intense acidity while gentle, frequent sunlight develops its vegetal and light fruit flavors. The varietal benefits most from cool, even brisk, nights and requires a long dormant or vegetative state between growing seasons, which can help naturally tame its substantial canopy growth.

That said, sauvignon blanc is a thin-skinned grape. This makes it susceptible to several bud and vine-rot conditions, which winemakers combat with frequent leaf and vine trimmings to nurture proper yield control.

Other ideal growing conditions for the sauvignon blanc grape include:
• Soil: Sauvignon blanc grows well in sandy, gravelly and clay-composed soils alike with various mineral compositions. The flavors lent from its soil type will affect the final flavors of a bottle of sauvignon blanc. In general, the chalkier the soil, the more mineral notes sauvignon blanc contains, while softer sand produces herb notes and denser, clay-forward soil will coax stronger fruits.
• Spacing: Given its tendency to grow thick, dense canopies, sauvignon blanc vines are planted no less than 6 feet apart.
• Water: Sauvignon blanc grapes require moderate-to-high water demand, especially in late summer, when vine canopies are at their thickest.

Body refers to the way a wine feels in your mouth, such as its weight and texture. For that reason, you’ll often hear body discussed using the word “mouthfeel.”

Sauvignon blanc is generally a medium-bodied white wine. Sips will be flavorful and zippy but not heavy, with common mouthfeel descriptors like zesty and crisp. Its body is approachable for a wide variety of preferences. It is particularly great to pair with meals, as its medium body and average ABV — around 12.5 to 14% — stand up to diverse foods without growing overpowering.

Sauvignon blanc is a high-acidity wine. Its high acidity gives the varietal a notably refreshing quality, with bright, loud flavors and aromas allowed to express in tart pops.

However, it’s important to remember acid does not make wine taste sour. Many compare the brightness of sauvignon blanc’s acidity to taking a bite out of a fresh, green granny smith apple, with flavor receptors on the sides and tip of your tongue responding for that lively tasting experience.

High acidity complements the drying sensation that occurs when drinking a typical glass of sauvignon blanc. As a rule of thumb, white wines will generally express more acidity than red wines, with a few exceptions, such as Sangiovese and Barbera d’Asti.

Sauvignon blanc is a highly aromatic white wine. Among its many signature smells, a glass of sauvignon blanc will carry notes of:

These common sauvignon blanc aromas lean on the earthy and herbaceous side. However, warm-climate sauvignon blanc — such as those from the Adelaide Hills of Australia — produce richer tropical fruit aromas suiting a fruiter overall profile.

Sauvignon blanc provides a complex array of earthy, mineral and fruit flavors rounded by a lean, dry finish.

Green or herbaceous flavors will be the most pronounced when drinking sauvignon blanc, represented in the varietal’s iconic bell pepper and freshly cut grass notes rounded by light citrus. The warmer the climate and more clay-like the soil sauvignon blanc grapes grew in, the fruiter its tastes.

The most common flavors associated with sauvignon blanc include:

Finish describes the effect wine has on your tongue and mouth after you’ve swallowed a sip. For sauvignon blanc, finishes tend to be crisp and clean. The varietal’s high acidity and sharp aromatics are more expressive on the front-end of the tasting experience rather than waiting to pounce at the very end.

Like other varietals, one of the most critical factors in sauvignon blanc’s characteristics will be whether the wine was grown in a warm or cool environment.

Sauvignon blanc’s green grapes thrive in cool climates. Ideally, vines are planted in spacious plots with unobstructed, persistent and direct access to sunlight but in areas where temperatures don’t grow hot or humid. Dry harvest periods extending through September are the best time to pick ripe sauvignon blanc grapes from cool climates, capturing their full acidity.

There are far fewer warm-climate regions producing sauvignon blanc than cool climates. The best of them include wineries in Southeast Australia as well as coastal South Africa. Both these countries have received critical and commercial acclaim for their sauvignon blanc, and their warm yet coast-hugging climates allow the thin-skinned grape to express nuanced characteristics.

Warmer climates allow grapes to hang longer on the vine. As a results, grapes lose a bit of their acidity. Sauvignon blanc’s green, pyrazine-inspired compounds will also be somewhat softened by warmer weather, translating into deeper, richer tropical fruit notes.

Overall, warm-climate sauvignon blanc features the following traits:

Today’s sauvignon blanc wines are categorized according to where a bottle comes from, not its ingredients or production recipes. All sauvignon blanc ingredients are the same, deriving from its namesake grape.

To experience the diversity amongst the different types of sauvignon blanc wine, consider trying bottles from any of the premier growing regions.

France’s Loire Valley is an unequivocal champion of sauvignon blanc.

The appellations of Sancerre and Pouilly-Fumé, in particular, produce some of the world’s purest representations of the white wine, balancing its earthy-mineral palate with bright pops of fruit. Think steely wet limestone marrying bell peppers, currants, lime, green apple and sweet basil. Loire Valley sauvignon blanc is medium-bodied, high acidity, dry and overwhelmingly unoaked, letting the mineral-soft notes steal the show.

Not to be left in Loire’s shadow is the sauvignon blanc of Bordeaux, located in Southwest France. Spanning over 6,400 hectares, sauvignon blanc is the region’s second-most planted white wine varietal, maintaining over 45% of all white wine vines. Here, sauvignon blanc sits just behind Semillon grapes, grown across 7,728 hectares or 47% of all white wine vine.

Sauvignon blanc is frequently blended with Semillon and Muscadelle grapes to create White Bordeaux, the region’s signature white wine blend. However, bottles of 100% Bordeaux Sauvignon Blanc will contain flavors of white peach, honey, lemon zest, chalk, nettles and gooseberries, underscored by refreshing acidity.

The world has New Zealand to thank for bringing sauvignon blanc back to popular favor. The country’s South Island houses near-idyllic conditions for the thin-skinned and early ripening grape, especially the appellations of Marlborough, Hawke’s Bay and Nelson.

New Zealand is the second-largest producer of sauvignon blanc worldwide, behind only France. Opt for bottles from this new-world champion when looking for a bolder, more intense expression of the varietal. Expect flavors of pineapple, kiwi, jalapeno and rhubarb alongside and faint tastes of asparagus and a signature, passion fruit and lime zip. Note the lighter minerality in many New Zealand Sauvignon Blancs, traded for those primary tropical fruit notes and a weightier overall mouthfeel.

South Africa’s Western Cape brings another new world interpretation to the beloved sauvignon blanc.

Sub-regions like Elgin, Constantia and Stellenbosch plant vines in 65-million-year-old soils brined by nearby ocean winds. The combination of South Africa’s warm climate and minerally soil delivers a sauvignon blanc with ripe, juicy fruit notes and characteristic minerality. These two flavor profiles push to the forefront, letting the earthy, green herbs work behind the scenes. South African Sauvignon Blanc is unmistakably fruity yet rustic, featuring nectarine, honey, green apple, lemon and sweet peas punctuated by saline and limestone.

Chile’s Sauvignon Blanc is one of the newest to the scene. Winemakers in regions like the Casablanca and San Antonio Valleys are especially up-and-coming in today’s market. Their versions of the white wine varietal emphasize fruit and herbs, featuring lively and acidic gooseberry, lime and grapefruit flavors deepened by celery, green bell pepper and grass. What mineral traces remain tend to add to its medium-body while keeping the overall palate light and zesty.

With its sights set on beating California, its proverbial wine-country neighbor to the south, Washington State has ramped up its selection of sauvignon blanc. Sitting on the same parallel as Bordeaux, Washington State produces sauvignon blanc wines with similar acidity, body and herbal brightness while coaxing gentler fruit flavors. A bottle of sauvignon blanc from Washington State brings out notes like white peach, green apple, tarragon, lemongrass and limestone with a zesty uptick of nectarine. You’ll also find a handful of Washington State winemakers oaking their sauvignon blanc, producing a richer, heavier and more perfumed final varietal.

Storing and serving sauvignon blanc is highly approachable — the varietal doesn’t require much fuss.

Serve a newly opened bottle chilled, ideally between 50° and 55° F. You can easily achieve that temperature by cooling sauvignon blanc in the fridge for one to two hours, or by chilling in an ice bath for around 30 minutes.

Sauvignon blanc is generally not a varietal you want to hoard down in the cellar. It likes to be drunk young, letting its signature acidity and bright, bold green minerality sing. Trapping the contents for too long or keeping bottles out in the open can muddle these lively characteristics, leading to a dulled or flat set of flavors.

Store unopened bottles of sauvignon blanc in a cool, dry and room temperature area away from windows or other light sources. Bottles can be stored upright or horizontally on wine racks. Place your bottle of sauvignon blanc in the refrigerator for at least an hour before serving, or chill in an ice bath.

Again, while sauvignon blanc’s naturally high acidity can be preserved through proper cellaring, it’s still best to drink this varietal soon after purchase.

3. How Long Does Sauvignon Blanc Last?

Once opened, a bottle of sauvignon blanc will last between two to four days when kept in the refrigerator. After the fifth day, the wine will begin to oxidize, resulting in rough, astringent flavors unpleasant on its own. Never fear, though. White wine can still be used for cooking, flavoring sauces and marinades even after oxidization.

Sauvignon blanc is a staple wine to pair with meals. Its earthy palate and citrus undertones complement a variety of dishes and cuisines, including foods other wines outright clash with.
• Shellfish: Scallops, crab, shrimp, clams and oysters make a delightful pairing with sauvignon blanc. The mild, sweet meats from these types of seafood stand well with sauvignon blanc on their own as well as when smothered in cream or citrus sauces.
• Sushi: Sauvignon blanc is one of the few wine varietals that go well with sushi. Experts suggest crisper, mineral-forward cool-climate sauvignon blancs with sushi, such as a classic Loire Valley or Bordeaux.
• Grilled fish: Select a sauvignon blanc when serving lightly charred white fish like sea bass, branzino, sablefish, haddock or grilled squid. The wine will uplift these fishes’ delicate, refined flavors to round out the meal.
• Citrus: Accentuate a citrusy fruit salad or fruit-based dessert with the grapefruit and lime notes prevalent in South African and Chilean Sauvignon Blancs. These wines also work great with citrus-based sauces or glazes over white meat.
• Thai cuisine: Traditional Thai dishes often center the use of fresh herbs and aromatics with a spicy finishing touch. Sweet wines will fight such cuisine, while a dry, crisp wine like sauvignon blanc complements the spices and fragrant herbs.
• Roasted chicken: Sauvignon blanc works with nearly any chicken preparation, but especially those stuffed or garnished with classic French herbs like rosemary, thyme, tarragon, marjoram or the Herbs de Provence blend.
• Garden salads: Salads featuring arugula, chard, fennel, pea shoots and peppers pair well with the herbaceous sauvignon blanc as do many composed salad recipes, like Nicoise.
• Spring vegetables: Asparagus and artichokes are two of the most notoriously tricky vegetables to pair with wine — except for sauvignon blanc, that is.
• Enchiladas: Break from the mold by serving fruiter Chilean or New Zealand sauvignon blancs with classic Mexican fare, such as enchiladas, especially those smothered in a green chile sauce.
• Soft cheeses: Charcuterie boards dotted with soft cheeses like chevre, brie and camembert are a match made in heaven for the bright, zippy sauvignon blanc.
• Sorbet and key lime pie: Bring out the full, tart qualities of these summer desserts with a glass of sauvignon blanc, whose dry palate and medium body ground these dishes’ sweetness yet amplify their citrus tang.

Marketview Liquor stocks all types of sauvignon blanc wines from premier and up-and-coming regions. Explore our sauvignon blanc wine catalog and order bottles for delivery right to your home.Chardonnay is the most popular white wine type in the world for a reason. Its fruity-yet-acidic balance, versatile, subtle palates and approachable pairings make chardonnay an effortless crowd-pleaser. Oh, and it’s grown in just about every major wine region in the world. Sips transport you through the golden sprawls of California to the breezy, ocean-lined vineyards of South Africa to the foggy hills of Burgundy, France, no passport required.

Pervasive pop-culture jabs aside, the universality of chardonnay grapes make them a winemaker’s dream blank canvas. It’s also led to an impressive blossoming of different types of chardonnay, each distinct in flavor profiles.

Grab your corkscrew and let us guide you through the tastes, styles and pairings of this distinct varietal.
• What Does Chardonnay Taste Like?
• How Many Calories in a Glass of Chardonnay?
• What Does Chardonnay Pair With?

What Kind of Wine Is Chardonnay?

Chardonnay is a popular type of white wine planted and enjoyed in every major wine appellation around the world.

Its global appeal is twofold. First, chardonnay grapes grow on a hearty, adaptive plant that tolerates both heat and cold alike. Its versatility made it a natural choice for winegrowers looking to plant a white wine varietal in soil types or climates hostile to most others. Second — and equally as important — chardonnay grapes themselves are relatively neutral. Flavors and aromas that come to mind regarding chardonnay are actually a byproduct of its vinification processes, or how the winemaker chooses to treat the grapes during and after fermentation.

Overall, there are three major characteristics defining chardonnay:
• Oaked versus unoaked: Oaking is a fermentation process commonly applied to some red and white wines. Winemakers choose to age chardonnay in oak for several reasons, including to deepen its color, round out its natural acidity and impart more complex flavors into the drink. In contrast, unoaked chardonnay retains a higher acidity and has a lighter hue.
• Malolactic fermentation (MLF): Malolactic fermentation is a vinification process where malic acid naturally found in grapes gets tamed into smoother, softer lactic acid. The result is a creamy, notoriously “buttery” flavored wine. Chardonnays are one of the main types of white wine to undergo MLF.
• Warm versus cool-climate: Warm and cool climates refers to the kind of weather the wine grapes grew in. Warm-climate chardonnays tend to be sweeter, full-bodied and higher in acidity, carrying pronounced ripe tropical fruit notes. Cooler-climate chardonnays will be brighter, leaner and more acidic, leaning on citrus fruits and mineral notes.

Note that one type of chardonnay (e.g., oak versus unoaked) is not considered innately superior to another. There are critically acclaimed warm-climate, cool-climate, oaked and unoaked chardonnay brands and bottles produced every year, each praised for complex flavors, aromas and structures

Chardonnay has a long, distinct history that stretches back across centuries — and across countries.

Like many other famous wine varietals, chardonnay calls the eastern region of Burgundy, France home. However, contemporary DNA analyses reveal chardonnay to be a cross between gouais blanc, pinot blanc and pinot noir grapes. Gouais blanc — is a plant native to modern-day Croatia and its neighbors. Gouais blanc is also one of the oldest wine varietals still in existence.

Records indicate Roman settlers first planted gouais blanc grapes among the already prosperous pinot blanc and pinot noir vines of Eastern France. From there, nature had her way.

Chardonnay grapes quickly populated other European wine regions, including Northern and Southern Italy as well as Germany and Austria. Many of today’s most coveted and premium chardonnays come from these Old World European regions, particularly Burgundy.

Chardonnay’s acreage grew when it became one of the three base grapes used to make Champagne, a type of sparkling wine that’s now synonymous with celebrations. To be authentic, Champagne needs to be produced in the Champagne region of France, where chardonnay grapes are often blended with pinot noir and pinot meunier to create the signature fizzy drink. Chardonnay can also be the lone grape used in pure, single-varietal types of Champagne as well.

2. Chardonnay Growth in the New World

Today, chardonnay is one of the top-most planted white wine varietals around the world. In fact, chardonnay is the most planted white wine in California, with over 95,000 acres dedicated to its name in the Golden State alone.

Worldwide, chardonnay is grown and bottled in many other New World countries. Each micro appellation in these countries produces chardonnays with vastly different flavors, textures, structure and aromas, increasing the complexity behind the white wine. Some of the top countries that produce chardonnay today include:

What Does Chardonnay Taste Like?

Given its relatively neutral base grape, there is no single set of characteristics defining all chardonnay. Instead, the flavors and smells noted while you drink will be affected by where the grape was grown (i.e., its primary flavors), then how the wine aged (i.e., secondary flavors).

Explore chardonnay’s primary and secondary to get an accurate taste description — and help you select your perfect chardonnay bottle.

In wine tasting, primary flavors are developed depending on the climate the grapes grew in — and the flavor of the grape directly influences the taste of the wine.

Chardonnay thrives in both warm and cool climates. Unlike other wine types — for example, the thick-skinned grenache, which needs hotter temperatures — chardonnays tend to be divided according to cool-climate or warm-climate origins. The nature of these growing conditions will create your chardonnay’s primary flavors.
• Primary flavors of cool-climate chardonnays: If you’re a fan of a citrusy chardonnay, it’s because an early harvest date and the cooler temperatures bring out the zest in the grape.
• Primary flavors of warm-climate chardonnays: Warmer climates allow chardonnay grapes to hang longer on the vine, therefore developing more sugar and reducing some of that pucker-worthy acidity. You’re left with a chardonnay that’ll be more mellow and rich. Like its cool-climate cousins, warm-climate chardonnays will still be fruit-forward, only you’ll experience more tropical ripe fruits, namely pineapple, kiwi and mango.

Secondary flavors refer to how a wine tastes due to its aging and bottling techniques. These are the notes coaxed and controlled by the winemaker herself.

With chardonnay, the most common secondary flavors are developed through oak aging and/or malolactic fermentation. Both these treatments add depth and complexity to the fruity, dry chardonnay and work regardless of a warm or cool original climate.
• Oak-aged chardonnay: Chardonnay aged in oak is immediately recognizable due to secondary flavors of vanilla, coconut, praline and baking spices, as well as its heavier body. In other words, oak-aging chardonnay introduces a more dessert-like, caramel flavor profile to those primary fruit notes.
• Unoaked chardonnay: Unoaked chardonnay is fermented in stainless steel barrels, reducing the wine’s exposure to oxygen. With this fermentation method, unoaked chardonnay retains its light, fruit-forward notes and a pronounced, crisp and dry finish. You will not get creamy, dessert notes with an unoaked chardonnay.
• Malolactic fermentation (MLF): MLF typically occurs within oak barrels and brings a wine into contact with its lees, a mix of residual yeast and plant particles. The resulting flavor is what helps distinguish chardonnay from any other type of white wine — a notably buttery finish. Chardonnay that’s undergone MLF will be smoother, richer and creamier, creating truly one-of-a-kind glass of white wine.

Consider the following characteristics to better determine your chardonnay’s flavor profile:
• Acidity: Chardonnay grapes are naturally dry and moderately acidic. Both warm and cool-climate chardonnays will retain that dryness and acidity. However, oak-aged and MLF chardonnay, with its buttery notes, will be noticeably less acidic than unoaked chardonnay.
• Body: All chardonnay contains a medium-to-full body, meaning its weight and texture will be firm and lush without veering heavy.
• Structure: Generally speaking, oaked chardonnay will have a higher ABV with bolder, boozier and deeper dessert-like flavors. Unoaked chardonnay will be lighter and elegant, with a lower ABV amount and a leaner, fruitier body.
• Mouthfeel: Unoaked chardonnay sips will feel relatively light and crisp. Oaked chardonnays, by comparison, will be smoother, softer and more rounded.
• Nose: Chardonnay’s natural aromas are delicate. Its most pronounced smells often match its primary fruits, giving off notes of fresh citrus to ripe tropical fruit. If oak-aged, the chardonnay will also carry hints of cream, vanilla, butter and baking spice.
• Finish: Nearly all chardonnay types — oak-aged and unoaked, cool and warm-climate — finish dry and clean.

How Many Calories in a Glass of Chardonnay?

A five-ounce serving of chardonnay wine will generally have around 120 calories. The average bottle of chardonnay contains about 625 calories.

Dry wines like chardonnay do carry a small amount of residual sugar. A trace amount of sugar means there are between 0-4 grams of carbohydrates per glass.

Types of chardonnay are best categorized according to warm versus cool climate, then old world versus new world origins. After all, these are the elements lending a bottle its primary and secondary flavors rather than the grapes themselves, ultimately contributing to chardonnay’s differences.

Chardonnay is to Burgundy what Munich-brewed beer is to Oktoberfest. The two go hand-in-hand, with Burgundy’s green pastoral hills cloaking limestone-dominant soil where chardonnay thrives.

It’s this limestone-clay soil that gives Burgundy chardonnay its distinct, flint-like quality. These soft mineral notes add dimension to Burgundy chardonnay’s light, fragrant fruits, namely lemon, apple and melon. Burgundy chardonnay will also be medium-bodied, pleasantly acidic and with a zippy-clean finish perfect to pair with meals or drink on its own.

There are four major types of Burgundy chardonnay. To preserve its unique minerality, three of Burgundy’s Chardonnay — Bourgogne Blanc, Chablis and Mâconnais — tend to be unoaked. The fourth (and traditionally most expensive) Burgundy chardonnay, the Côte de Beaune, is oaked, resulting in that rich and buttery flavor profile with vanilla and truffle undertones.

Given its historical winemaking claim-to-fame, the region has a habit of sticking its name on top of all the types of wine it produces, which can cause confusion when you’re searching for a familiar varietal. For example, bottles of red wine from Burgundy are actually 100% pinot noir, while bottles of white wine from Burgundy are none other than chardonnay.

Yes, you guessed it. Champagne, France, is the home of its namesake drink, the bubbly white wine you pop on New Years, anniversaries, birthdays and other celebratory events. Sparkling champagne is, in fact, made from chardonnay-based grape blends. However, the same region produces its own type of chardonnay with distinct primary flavors and aromas.

Chardonnay from Champagne, France will be elegant, refined and semi-dry, pushing stone fruit flavors like peach and nectarine to the front of the palate. The cold, wet climate of this northern region shields the grapes’ natural acidity. Its unique porous and chalky soil also helps absorb some of the tangy minerality so pronounced in other French chardonnay, lending this type a rounder, smoother finish even when left unoaked.

We can thank the Sonoma Valley for helping put California chardonnay on the map. The Northern region has 18 individual American Viticultural Areas (AVAs) and over 400 wineries, each with its own microclimate and terroir, producing some of the New World’s best chardonnay.

In fact, chardonnay is the most widely planted grape varietal in all of California. When unoaked, Sonoma Valley chardonnay is notably light, sweet and refreshing, featuring flavors of apricot, green apple and lemon zest. Oaked, this California chardonnay brings those signature vanilla, baking spice and butter notes so popular in this varietal, deepened by hints of cedar. Both types will carry high acidity, medium body and a lingering, mellow finish.

Chardonnay has found itself among the top white wine types grown in South Africa — and for a good reason. The warm, temperate climate punctuated by ocean-moderated rain and fog (particularly for vineyards near the coast) produces chardonnay grapes that are vibrant and complex but taut. It’s an ideal base for age-oaking, with South African oaked chardonnays offering some of the best full-bodied, creamy and supple chardonnays on the market.

Even oaked, South African chardonnays don’t lose their signature acidity. Expect flavors like pineapple, peach and fig mellowed by toasted nuts trailing the earlier sweetness and tang.

Oregon’s claim to chardonnay fame is perhaps best represented by Willamette Valley. Located in northwest Oregon — not far from major city centers like Portland and Eugene — Willamette Valley chardonnay is for those seeking the bright, refreshing stonefruit and citrus qualities innate to cool-climate chardonnay. The region’s chardonnay also contains a surprising blast of punchy minerals, which matures the acidity and make a bottle from this region particularly bright and energetic.

In fact, many have compared some of Willamette Valley’s best chardonnay wines with the flavors and aromas of white wine from Burgundy itself — the highest praise a New World chardonnay producer can get.

Italian chardonnay is a world onto itself. The fourth-most planted varietal in the country, Italian chardonnay will vary in body, structure and acidity between the north and south, where varying climates and topographies create surprising grape profiles.

Southern Italian chardonnay from Sicily and Umbria are noticeably fleshier than its northern cousins. Tropical, sweeter fruit notes like kiwi and pineapple knock before letting the tarter lemon and lime acidity do its thing. When aged in oak, Italian wines carry a spiced uptick amplified by that acidity but not overwhelmed by it.

Northern Italian chardonnay from regions like Piedmont and Asti are lighter and sharper. Fruit flavors include lemon and white peach, with a medium body grounding the even when left unoaked. You’ll more readily find oak-aged Italian chardonnay hailing from the south, with northern growers overwhelmingly keeping their’s unoaked.

Australia offers one of the purest expressions of warm-climate chardonnay available today. The varietal is grown all over the Outback, yet arguably does best in the maritime climates of micro-regions like Margaret Valley, Adelaide Hills and the island of Tasmania.

Australia’s warm climates coax lush, effervescent tropical fruit flavors like ripe figs, melon and mango. Australian chardonnay will also be softly structured but mouth-filling, with a round and velvety finish in both oaked and unoaked varieties. Premier Australian chardonnay varietals don’t rely on that one-note smoothness, though. Award-winning winemakers in Australia are adept at balancing its silkier finish with toasted nut, spice and vanilla notes to keep the flavors from falling too muted.

What Does Chardonnay Pair With?

Given the grape’s inherent neutrality, many foods pair well with chardonnay. However, it’s best to follow the “weight” rule of thumb when it comes to selecting a type of chardonnay to go with your dish: Heavier, richer oaked chardonnays go with heavier, richer meals while lighter, tarter unoaked chardonnay pairs great with light fare.
• Flaky white fish: Delicate but meaty white fish like halibut, cod and swordfish work great with both oaked and unoaked chardonnay — especially when poached and drizzled in a lemon-butter sauce.
• Pork tenderloin: An unoaked chardonnay uplifts juicy cuts of pork tenderloin. Get creative with your sauces. The pork-chardonnay pair makes a particularly great team with citrus glazes that amplify the pineapple and lemon-lime zest inherent to this white wine.
• Roasted chicken: Roasted chicken dishes, as well as other white-meat fowl, go great with the rich, creamy profile of oaked chardonnay. Try yours with a roasted mushroom cream sauce, caramelized onions or truffle shavings.
• Aged firm cheeses: Opt for semi-hard but creamy cheeses like Gruyère, Edam and Gouda. These selections amplify an oaked chardonnay’s nutty or toasted notes. But they’ll also be instantly brightened — but not overwhelmed — by a more acidic unoaked chardonnay.
• Shellfish: Few wine types pair as beautifully with shellfish as unoaked chardonnay. Think scallops, lobsters, crab and shrimp in a butter or béarnaise sauce featuring equally complimentary fare like sweet corn or roasted potatoes.
• Pasta: Pasta with butter or cream-based sauces is a go-to pairing for chardonnay. Select an oaked chardonnay for plates smothered in sauces, like carbonara or fettuccine alfredo, then a lighter, unoaked chardonnay for pasta featuring seafood.
• Mild curry: Oaked chardonnay is a delightful selection to pair with mild and yellow curries or similar dishes, like Indian malai kofta or butter chicken. The creaminess of the chardonnay enhances the coconut or yogurt bases of these dishes while letting their fragrant spices remain the stars.
• Cream soups: From hearty chicken dumpling or wild rice soups to flavorful Thai tom kha kai, go with an oaked chardonnay to complete the meal.
• Late summer vegetables: Squash, pumpkin, corn and parsnip puree can be paired with either heavier oaked or crisper unoaked chardonnay for a vegetarian feast.
• Nuts: Hazelnuts, macadamias, almonds and cashews carry an inherent creaminess perfect for chardonnay. Select either oaked or unoaked, old or new world when setting up your next charcuterie platter.

Always serve your bottle of chardonnay chilled, around 50–55°F. Once opened, flavors remain fresh for 2-4 days in the refrigerator before oxidizing.

See for yourself why chardonnay is the most popular white wine type in the United States.

Marketview Liquor’s wine catalog has chardonnays from every corner of the world. Browse chardonnay online and select the bottles or brands you’d like. We’ll get your order shipped right to your door!How can you possibly ring in the New Year without a glass of sparkling wine? If you normally skip out on this New Year’s tradition, chances are you probably haven’t found the bubbly for you yet. Luckily, Marketview Liquor stocks a wide variety of sparkling wine for New Year’s Eve.

From the driest of tastes to bold fruit flavors, we can help you discover a sparkling wine to entertain your taste buds. Here is our list of the top sparkling wines to pop open just after midnight.

Champagne is one of the most popular sparkling wines to ring in the New Year. It’s is a sparkling wine made in the Champagne region of France and obeys all the rules of grape selection and production. So not all sparkling wines are champagnes, but all champagnes are sparkling wines.

Champagne evokes an air of luxury, and it can come with a high price tag. However, it does come in many varieties and even different price points, too. When you are searching for the best sparkling wine for New Year’s, you can choose dry or sweet champagnes, vintage champagnes that have aged three years or more, white champagnes and newer champagnes that have been aged at least 15 months.

If you want a good sparkling wine for Near Year’s Eve, a sparkling rosé is a festive choice. These wines are often sweeter and fruitier, though there are some dry versions, too. Different grapes are used to produce sparkling rosé, from Moscato to Prosecco and others. You can even find a Champagne rosé with grapes from the Champagne region of France.

Cava is a Spanish wine. It is made with the macabeu grape and goes through a production process that is similar to champagne. The flavor is faintly lemony and sometimes almost floral, but this is not a sweet wine in most cases. Instead, it’s a robust wine that is perfect for anyone who enjoys dry sparkling wine.

Cava is also among the best sparkling wines for Near Year’s Eve because it is refreshing and goes with many foods you may want to eat. At the same time, it’s not as common as other types of sparkling wines, so it offers a more unique option. If you want the bubbles without the sweet and without trying champagne, cava could be a solid sparkling wine for New Year’s.

You can also find rosé cava, as well as varieties made with different grapes. The taste is similar in some instances to American sparkling wine or non-vintage champagne. It is a great value option for your New Year’s celebration.

Place an Order for New Year’s Eve Sparkling Wine

Kicking off the New Year should start with a bottle of sparkling wine. Make Marketview Liquor your one-stop shop this holiday season — we stock substantial wines and spirits for celebrations with friends and family. Browse New Year’s Eve sparkling wines online today.Nothing rings in the New Year like popping open a bottle of Champagne with friends and family. Setting your New Year’s resolution should start with ordering a fine selection of sparkling wine from Marketview Liquor. Together, we can help you prepare a toast for the ultimate celebration with the ones you love.

If you’re looking for the best Champagne for New Year’s, you’ve come to the right place. From Dry Champagne to Blanc de Blancs, check out why we consider these champagnes as the best champagnes to celebrate New Year’s.

When looking for the best champagne to celebrate the New Year, consider a dry champagne. A champagne with brut in the name, including brut nature, brut and extra brut will have few or no sugars added for a dry New Year’s Eve wine.

If you don’t want sweetness or are pairing your champagne with a meal that wouldn’t go well with sugars, a dry champagne may be right for you.

Rosé champagne is a New Year wine currently growing in popularity. It features an earthy flavor and a soft pink color, which can make this wine look especially festive for the New Year. Rosé champagne can be dry, or you can look for a doux champagne, which will be a sweeter variety. In recent years, rosé champagne has become more associated with fine dining.

A rosé champagne is also not made with color additives. The distinctive pink tint comes from adding pinot noir to white champagne. The result is good acidity, low tannins and a great champagne for New Year’s.

Literally meaning white of whites, this champagne is made from 100% chardonnay or white grapes. The fruit flavors in this champagne are usually apple and lemon. Very occasionally, other grapes are used. Blanc de blancs can be one of the best champagnes to get for New Year’s because the fruity flavors make it a very drinkable option.

When selecting the best champagne for NYE, you may also want to consider vintage. Most champagnes are classified as vintage when they have been aged for at least three years, which can create an almost yeasty taste. Non-vintage champagnes are typically aged for at least 15 months and may have a more fruity taste. Both make wonderful New Year’s champagnes, but one may appeal to your tastes more than another.

Champagne goes hand in hand with celebration. Let us be a part of your New Year’s Eve party by placing an order for one of our Champagne products today. We hope you find our list of Champagnes helpful as you plan your pairings for the New Year.

Shop Champagne online at Marketview Liquor for more information about our products and services, or order now to get ready in advance.Some of the best memories from the holiday season are a result of spending time with friends and family around the dessert table. Simple sweets and treats are a great complement to a Christmas feast, but nothing beats a generous glass of dessert wine. These are deep fortified beverages with bold flavors of berries and plums along with earthy aromas.

If you never had a dessert wine before, Marketview Liquor is here to help you make the perfect selections for the best Christmas wine this season.

Madeira wines are fortified and offer the taste of peaches, oranges, caramel and hazelnut depending on preference. The wine is available in both dry and sweet varieties, but it’s commonly identified as a dessert wine for its citrus flavor.

While you may think sweet wines are ideal for pairing with dessert, look for a madeira with a dry finish. It will go beautifully with Christmas puddings, chocolate and sweet desserts without adding to the sweetness.

Port wines are created by adding alcohol at a specific point in the fermenting process. Originating in Portugal, these wines are essential for Christmas desserts with clear aromas of raspberries, blackberries, caramel, cinnamon and chocolate.

Port is considered among the best dessert wines for Christmas because it is ideal for pairing with traditional desserts like pie, as well as more simple dishes, such as platters of fruit and cheese. It can even stand alone as dessert itself.

Sauternes wines are French and derived from the Graves region of Bordeaux. These wines are full of sweet and acidic aromas, as aged grapes are involved in the creation of each product.

When you order a bottle of Sauternes wine, you can expect sensations of apricot, butterscotch, coconut, mango and tropical fruit, which make this dessert wine a desirable one. When it comes to pairing a bottle of Sauternes, Christmas sides such as ice cream, tarts, cheesecake and fruit-based desserts are splendid options.

The acidity and complexity of Sauternes make it among the best dessert wines for Christmas, whether you’re indulging in plum pudding or gingerbread. Serve the wine lightly cooled.

Moscato wines pair well with Christmas pastries and desserts. This family of wine is sweet in nature and should be served cold for the best results. With hints of fruit and citrus, a bottle of Moscato will be a hit at any holiday gathering.

Moscato is considered among the most drinkable wines, and with its slight fizz, it will please dessert-lovers who don’t traditionally reach for a glass.

Marketview Liquor wants to be a part of your Christmas celebration. Shop our dessert wine options and you can keep entertaining long after the Christmas feast.Christmas is an exciting time of year to celebrate the holiday cheer with family and friends. What better way to make happy memories than with a delicious bottle of wine and a tasty dinner? If you are hosting a Christmas dinner or attending a holiday party, you may be wondering what some of the best wines for the holidays are.

When planning your holiday meal, one of the most important things you may consider is whether you want red or white wine with Christmas dinner. Wine is a delicious addition to any meal and can be an excellent way to celebrate the holidays and elevate your meal. In addition to gifts and holiday cheer, most people look forward to Christmas dinner, food and wine.

A quick rule of thumb for choosing the best red wine for Christmas dinner or white wine for appetizers is to pair wines with similar flavor profiles. For example, full-bodied red wine often pairs better with a heartier meal of a roast or ham. If you pair a robust wine with a light dish, the wine will likely overpower the flavors of your meal. While any wine can be a delicious addition to your Christmas dinner, some of the most popular Xmas wines include Moscato, Pinot Noir, Sauvignon Blanc, and more.

Prosecco wine is a good wine for Christmas dinner. This sparkling wine originates from Northeastern Italy and is named after the Italian town of Prosecco. Although prosecco is an Italian wine, the grapes that make this Italian wine are imported from Slovenia. Prosecco grapes, formerly known as glera grapes, are what provide prosecco with a unique flavor.

While prosecco comes in many styles, some of the best wines to pair with Christmas dinner are the brut and extra brut styles. Because of its high acidity, dryness and strong fruit flavors, prosecco is a versatile wine that pairs wonderfully with numerous dishes.

Cava wine is among many Christmas dinner wine recommendations because of its light to medium-bodied dry flavor. Cava wine is aged longer on the lees to achieve more pronounced nutty and apple notes. This sparkling wine creates a creamy and smooth mouthfeel and typically features dominant flavors of almond, lemon, lime, tart apple and quince.

Cava is made from the traditional methods, which is the same way champagne is made in France. Cava is a traditional Spanish sparkling wine that is mainly produced in Catalonia. This style of wine often features a blend of parellada and macabre grapes and comes in either rosé or white.

Ripasso is an ancient wine-making technique that is traditional to Valpolicella wines but has grown in popularity among wine lovers. The Ripasso technique, also known as the double fermentation technique, provides more body, structure and unique flavors to a basic Valpolicella wine. Ripasso wines retain Valpolicella’s vibrancy but are more flavorful and complex than the original wine.

Ripasso may be an ideal wine to serve at Christmas dinner if you plan to have bold, hearty flavors, such as braised red meats, aged cheeses and stews. Some wine enthusiasts find Ripasso wines to share similar flavor profiles and aromas to Amarone wine. If you or your guests are a fan of Amarone, likely, you or your guests will also enjoy the flavor of Ripasso wines.

Moscato is an excellent wine that pairs well with Christmas dinner due to its sweet, bubbly flavor profile. Moscato comes in rosé or white and typically has a low alcohol content, making it an ideal wine to pair with appetizers or desserts. A Moscato Wine is made using Muscat grapes, which are grapes commonly used to make raisins.

Fruit flavors are some of the most common notes in a Moscato wine, including orange blossoms, sweet peach and nectarines. Because Moscato wines are sugary and sweet, they often pair well with fruit tarts, butterscotch, coconut and creamy desserts. It is generally recommended not to pair Moscato with chocolate, as chocolate is often too rich.

Barbaresco is also a good wine for Christmas dinner that is made in Italy’s Piedmont region. Barbaresco is an acidic and highly tannic wine that requires years of cellaring to balance its flavors. This wine is aged at least 26 months, with at least nine months in wood barrels. Barbaresco is an excellent red wine for Christmas dinner because it often features notes of licorice, raspberry, dried cherry, rose petals and more.

Barbaresco’s intense and bold flavors make it an ideal wine to pair with hearty and rich Christmas dinners. This wine has earthy and smoky elements that complement beef roasts, veal, lamb or short ribs. You may want to avoid pairing Barbaresco wines with chicken or fish, as the wine may overwhelm the lighter flavors of these dishes.

Despite its name, white merlot is not a white wine but is a style of blush wine that is made using black-skinned merlot grapes. While some blush wines are blended rosés, white merlot is made using one grape type, which is where its unique pink hues originate. White merlot and white Zinfandel were created in the 1980s and have continued to become increasingly popular.

White merlot features sweet flavors and a refreshingly crisp finish. Because the grapes spend less time on the skin, the overall tannin levels are decreased significantly. Some of the main notes on this type of wine include orange peel, sweet cherry, blackberry, raspberry, cranberry and more. When pairing white merlot with foods, you may want to consider savory flavors, which can balance the sweetness of this wine.

While many people may think vermouth is a spirit, it is actually a fortified wine, meaning it has added alcohol to increase its alcohol level. Vermouth is also aromatized and infused with various spices, herbs and roots and, in some cases, sweetened. The flavor profile of vermouth is complex and layered.

Some of the most commonly used herbs in vermouth include marjoram, lavender, ginger and rose. Other popular flavors include cardamom, cinnamon, citrus peels, licorice, orris and vanilla. Vermouth often pairs well with simple snacks and appetizers, including flatbreads and breadsticks.

Ice wine originated in Austria and Germany. When making ice wine, the grapes are left on the vine longer through the winter, and the water within the grapes will freeze. The frozen grapes are immediately picked and pressed, making juice that is much higher in sugar. This will then be made into ice wine.

When making ice wine, the main grapes used are Vidal Blanc and Riesling. While flavors may vary, some of the most common notes include tropical fruits, marmalade, citrus and honey. Ice wine is often served as a dessert wine with sweets like ice cream, cheesecake, white chocolate mousse and fresh fruit panna cotta.

Chianti wine is wine made from the Chianti region and is made of Sangiovese grapes. Chianti is a dry red wine that pairs well with a variety of food. Its flavor profile ranges from light to almost full-bodied and often has an aroma of cherries or violets. Some chianti wine also has a flavor similar to tart cherries because Chianti wine has coarse tannins and high acid.

The high acidity levels of Chianti cut through rich, fatty dishes and complement the flavor of tomatoes. Chianti is an excellent wine recommendation for Christmas dinner featuring tomatoes or tomato sauces.

Bordeaux wine originated from Bordeaux, France, and the majority of Bordeaux wines are made with red wines from Cabernet Sauvignon and Merlot. Bordeaux wines are medium to full-bodied with aromas and flavors of plums, black currant and earthy notes. Depending on the style of Bordeaux wine, the flavor profiles range from sweet to tart.

Bordeaux wines from the Left bank are an ideal wine for Christmas ham dinner, lamb, and fattier steaks. If you are serving a Bordeaux wine from the right bank, this wine is one of the best wines for Christmas turkey dinner or a meal featuring leaner cuts of meat, including pork and duck.

How to Decide What Is a Good Wine for Christmas Dinner

One of the first things to consider for choosing the best white or red wine for Christmas dinner is thinking about what will be on the menu. For example, the best wine for turkey Christmas dinner will likely be different than the best wine with a Christmas ham dinner. If you have a lighter meal such as seafood or chicken, you will likely choose a lighter wine to balance these flavors.

A heartier wine pairs with bold flavors, such as lamb, beef or ham. The taste of a light wine may get overwhelmed by the strong flavors of the meal. Likewise, a strong wine may overpower the flavor of your meal. There are also many styles of wine to choose from, and two of the most well-known styles include red and white wines. Other popular types of wine include blush wines and rosé.

Best Red Wine to Have With Christmas Dinner

Red wines are some of the most popular wines that can pair excellently with your holiday meal. If you are looking for some of the best red wines to have with Christmas dinner, you may want to consider:
• Pinot noir: One of the most popular red wines for Christmas dinner is pinot noir, which is made of black-skinned grapes. These grapes create a lighter-bodied wine that pairs excellently with various meals. Pinot noir features delicious flavors of red fruit, which are naturally high in acidity. Pinot noir is typically made in a dry style.
• Merlot: High-quality merlots are made in Chile, France, the United States, Italy and Australia. Most merlots share velvety, supple tannins and flavor profiles of plum and black cherry. Merlot is an ideal red wine for Christmas turkey dinner, pork, cheesy gratins and veal roasts.
• Cabernet Sauvignon: Many believe Cabernet Sauvignon is one of the best red wines for Christmas dinner that pairs well with red meats, including filet mignon and prime rib. You can also pair this wine with ahi tuna and lamb for a delicious meal. Enjoy this wine with food served with reductions or sauces. You may want to avoid rice and pasta when serving Cabernet Sauvignon.
• Malbec: Another popular choice for the best Christmas dinner red wines is Malbec. These wines are generally full-bodied and feature dark fruit flavors, including red plum and blackberry.

White wine is another popular style of wine that is sure to please your holiday guests. If you wonder what wine goes with Christmas turkey dinner, you may want to consider these popular white wine styles.
• Chardonnay: A chardonnay is often full, velvety and fruity, but it may also have a creamier taste, depending on the style. Chardonnay can be an ideal white wine for Christmas dinner if you are serving a creamy dish, such as creamed mushrooms.
• Pinot grigio: A pinot grigio is a white wine for Christmas turkey dinner that is typically light- to medium-bodied. In most cases, a pinot grigio is generally dry and features a crisp flavor. Many wine enthusiasts enjoy pairing pinot grigio with a creamy pasta dish or salad.
• Sauvignon blanc: Another Christmas dinner white wine is Sauvignon blanc, and it is generally a crowd-pleaser. This wine is slightly tart, on the drier side and usually more acidic than a traditional Chardonnay. A sauvignon blanc can pair well with a cheese dish or even fresh seafood, depending on the style.

How Much Wine to Serve for Christmas Dinner

If you know what wine you want to serve or bring to your holiday dinner, you may be wondering how much wine you will need for all of your guests. On average, a serving of wine is approximately five ounces, but each person may pour more or less. The size of a wine glass will also change how much wine a guest may pour at once.

The number of bottles you may need will also depend on the size of the wine bottles for the style you are serving. On average, a standard bottle of wine is about 25 ounces or about five full servings. When considering the food and wine for Christmas dinner, it is generally recommended to have a little extra on hand.

If you have extra wine afterward, you can save unopened bottles for New Year’s Eve or another celebration. A good rule to follow is having one bottle of wine for every one to two guests you expect every two to three hours. You may also want to have various wines to serve throughout the evening, such as a wine for appetizers, one for the main course and a dessert wine to finish.

Best Food and Wine Pairings for Christmas Dinner

Food and wine pairings can work in harmony to bring out the flavors of your meal and wine. While many food and wine pairings are known to go well together, it is important to remember that almost any wine can be a great addition to your dinner. The most important thing is having fun and enjoying selecting a bottle of wine you think you and your guests will enjoy.

Appetizers are the first flavors your holiday guests will enjoy during your Christmas dinner. Some of the most popular wine and appetizer pairings include:
• Cheese platters: Cheese and wine is a classic pair and an excellent way to start your Christmas meal. For cheese platters, you can serve a very light red wine or crisp white wine. Aged cheese, including Havarti and gouda, may pair better with a sweeter white wine.
• Meat platters: If you are serving a meat platter as a Christmas appetizer, some of the tastiest meats include soppressata, prosciutto and mortadella. These meats pair well with light-bodied white wines, including pinot grigio and sauvignon blanc, or medium-bodied red wines, such as merlot or pinot noir.
• Pigs in a blanket: Choose a savory treat for your guests to enjoy before Christmas dinner. If you are serving pigs in a blanket, some of the best wine pairings include Riesling and pinot noirs. Rosés are also an excellent choice, especially if your pigs in a blanket will be served with a side of mustard.

After a delicious round of appetizers, you and your dinner guests will be excited to taste the flavors of your main course. Popular meat and wine pairings for Christmas dinner include:
• Turkey: Wine pairing for a Christmas turkey dinner can complement the meat, gravy and stuffing. Some of the most popular wines to pair with your Christmas turkey dinner include pinot noir, Riesling, Zinfandel and chardonnay.
• Ham: Another option to serve during your Christmas dinner is ham. The sweet and salty notes of ham often pair well with wines that feature a little sweetness, including Moscato, Zinfandel and Rieslings.
• Steak: The bold and hearty flavors of steak often pair excellently with cabernets and Malbec wine. You can also serve steak with Zinfandel or merlot during your Christmas dinner.

While your main dish is an important aspect of your holiday dinner, we cannot forget dessert! If you have saved room, you and your guests can enjoy a sweet treat to end a delicious holiday meal. Some of the best dessert and wine pairings include:
• Cheesecake: You can end your Christmas dinner on a great note and choose from various toppings. Pair your cheesecake with a sweet Riesling, Moscato or Prosecco. You may also want to consider port wine or sauvignon blanc for wines that complement a cheesecake dessert.
• Gingerbread cookies: If you enjoy a delicious gingerbread house or cookies for your Christmas dessert, you may want to complement this food with a bottle of Zinfandel. Zinfandel is a fruit-based wine that features a bold flavor that goes well with the spice of gingerbread.
• Fruit tart: If you are serving a refreshing fruit tart for Christmas dessert, you can pair this delicious pastry with ice wine or a late harvest riesling. These wines feature sweet, crisp and refreshing flavors that go hand in hand with the acidity of a fruit tart.

Tips On Choosing What Wine Is Best for Christmas Dinner

One of the first things to remember about choosing a bottle of wine for a holiday get-together is it is rather hard to select a wine that guests will not enjoy. Even if a wine does not pair perfectly with a meal, it can be enjoyed before or after dinner as a tasty treat. If you are unsure where to start when selecting a bottle of wine for your Christmas dinner, consider these tips:
• None Choose a popular wine that is a known crowd-pleaser.
• None Consider what type of meat is on the menu for your dinner.
• None Select your personal favorite because your guests will likely also enjoy the wine.
• None Get a variety of wines, so your guests have options to choose from.

At Marketview Liquor, we are proud to offer an extensive selection of wines, spirits and gifts and accessories. When you buy six or more bottles of select wines, you are eligible for free shipping, and we even offer a 10% discount for eligible wines by the case. We are proud to offer delicious, high-quality wine at fair prices that work for all budgets but do not sacrifice quality or flavor.

Browse our selection of wine and choose the perfect bottle for your Christmas dinner.With the holiday season approaching, Hanukkah is almost here. Hanukkah is an exciting time for followers of the Jewish faith as communities and families celebrate cultural traditions. The cuisine surrounding the holiday calls for certain restrictions, as Kosher products relate to Jewish dietary law.

Fortunately, Kosher wines exist for those hoping to enjoy a glass of wine alongside classic Jewish meals. Check out our list of the best Kosher wines for Hanukkah.

What Kind of Wine Is Best for Hanukkah?

Hanukkah is an exciting time to try new cuisine and spend time with family and friends. If you’re looking for the perfect Kosher wine to accompany a classic Jewish meal, Marketview Liquor has got you covered.

We carry a wide range of Kosher wines for Hanukkah, including:
• Moscato: These white wines are rich in fruit flavors and are a must-have for pastries and desserts during Hanukkah.
• Manischewitz: Our online store features an array of balanced wine flavors from Manischewitz, a leading name in the industry of Kosher products.
• Syrah and shiraz: Try brisket with one of these dark red wines for a great pairing during Hanukkah.
• Chardonnay: We carry delicious chardonnay abundant with flavors such as peaches, pears and apples to pair with Hanukkah cuisines.

If you’re searching for Kosher wines for Hanukkah, look no further than Marketview Liquor. We have the wines and spirits to complement your family’s holiday traditions. Shop our wines online today.The winter holidays are some of the best times of the year — eating great food, spending time with family and friends and giving and receiving thoughtful gifts are among the highlights. When you are looking for the right gift for the people on your list, consider a wine gift!

You can gift wine in all sorts of different ways, from the tradition of bringing a bottle with you to a party to other more unique ideas. View our holiday wine gift guide for some of the best wines for holiday gifts.

Indulge in the Top 6 Best Wine for Holiday Gifts

Wine is an excellent gift for the holidays and can be perfect for friends and family. Wine for holiday gifts can be a great way to surprise a loved one with their favorite bottle or a new flavor for them to try. There are seemingly endless good wines for holiday gifts, ranging from sweet to dry. Consider these holiday staples if you are looking for the best wine to gift.

Red wines are a staple to any holiday wine gift guide. Red wines are made from fermenting dark-skinned grapes. One of the most obvious traits of red wine is the rich red color, ranging from deep purple to pale red. Aged red wines can take on very dark shades of red and even turn brown, depending on the type of red wine and age.

One of the most popular red wines is Cabernet Sauvignon. Cabernet Sauvignon is one of the best holiday wine gifts because it features notes of black currants, cherries and various spices. Merlot is another popular red wine that is one of the best holiday gift wines because of its popularity.

Other popular red wines include Zinfandel, Malbec, Syrah and Pinot Noir. You may also enjoy Sangiovese, Barbera, Beaujolais or Bordeaux wines. Regardless of the style of red wine, these holiday wine gift ideas are sure to be the perfect treat for your loved ones.

White wines are made of fermented light-skinned grapes and are a good holiday wine gift for any wine lover. Unlike red wines, white wines are made using grapes with the skins removed before fermentation to prevent adding color to the wine and avoid higher levels of tannins. White wines tend to be sweeter than most reds, although the exact sweetness depends on the style and bottle.

Chardonnay is one of the most popular types of dry white wine, ranging in flavor from papaya to lemon. Chardonnay is often paired with shellfish like lobsters, prawns, crabs and heartier fish like halibut and cod. Sauvignon Blanc is also a great holiday wine gift for wine lovers. A bottle of Sauvignon Blanc features aromatic notes of citrus and acidic flavors.

Moscato is one of the best holiday wine gifts for those who enjoy a sweeter, fruitier wine. Other popular white wines include Pinot Grigio and Riesling.

Blush wines are pink, ranging in color from light to medium shades. When making blush wines, winemakers may leave the juice of grapes in contact with the skins of red wine grapes to achieve a slight pink color. Some blush wines are made by combining red wine and white wine, resulting in a light pink color.

While many people use the term blush interchangeably with a rosé, there is a difference between these two styles. Rosé wines are made from leaving the juice from grapes in contact with skins and are never made from a blend of white and red wine. Blush wines may be made using either method. All rosé wines are considered blush wines, but not every blush wine is a rosé.

Some of the most popular blush wines include White Merlot, White Zinfandel and White Grenache. While these blush wines have the color white in the name, they are all produced by leaving the juice of red wine grapes in contact with the grape skins for a short period of time to achieve the pink hue. Blush wines pair well with various classic holiday meals, including lobster, barbecued meats, salmon, goat cheese and Italian dishes with red sauce.

While traditional wines are made of grapes, fruit wines refer to wines made from any other type of fruit other than grape. This type of wine is made from fermented fruit juice. Additionally, floral wines are also included in the fruit wine family. Floral wines include elderflower and dandelion wine. Most fruit wines are alcoholic, although you can find nonalcoholic variations.

Fruit wine can be a fun holiday wine gift for a wine lover who prefers sweeter, fruitier bottles. Some of the most popular fruit wine flavors include peach wine, pineapple wine and green apple wine. You may also enjoy fruit wines featuring notes of watermelon, red apple and mango strawberry.

Sangria is another sweet wine beverage originating from Spain. The color and flavor of sangria can vary depending on the wine used to make this drink. There are many different variations and recipes for sangria, and ingredients vary widely. White sangria is made from white wine, and red sangria is made from red wine. Generally, a traditional sangria uses fruit juice, such as orange juice, sparkling water, simple syrup, chopped fruits and flavored liqueurs to enhance the flavor.

If you’re looking for a unique gift on our wine holiday gift guide, you may want to consider orange wine. Despite its name, orange wine is not made of oranges. Orange wine is made from white grapes that are mashed and placed into a larger container. These grapes are fermented for as little as four days to a year with the seeds and skins attached.

This natural process uses little to no additives, resulting in a more unique flavor profile and taste than white wines. Orange wine often has a nuttier flavor from oxidation during the fermentation process.

Orange wines are often described as bold, robust and flavorful, with notes of jackfruit, juniper, linseed oil and hazelnut. Most orange wines are more dry and feature a tannin level similar to red wine with a sour taste similar to a fruit beer.

Because orange wines have such a bold flavor, they pair perfectly with bold cuisine. You may want to pair orange wines with Moroccan or Ethiopian dishes. Orange wine is also excellent with Korean dishes, such as kimchi, and Japanese meals and curries.

Honey wine, also known as mead, is made from water and honey fermented with yeast and flavored with various spices, hops, fruits and grains. Honey wine is a unique beverage that falls between wine and beer. Mead features a unique flavor profile because of the fermented honey. Depending on the ingredients added, mead may taste similar to white wine, fruit wine or even hard cider.

Some of the best meads can amplify and strengthen the flavors of high-quality honey. Mead is incredibly versatile, ranging from very sweet to dry. If you are new to mead, you may want to select a bottle based on its added ingredients. For example, if you know you enjoy a certain spice or fruity note, you can choose a mead flavored with this for a delicious treat.

While a bottle of wine can be an excellent gift, wine-themed holiday gifts, including wine gift sets, are the perfect option for the holiday season. Wine gift sets feature two or more bottles of wine, allowing you to gift your loved ones a variety of wines for them to enjoy. If you know your friend or loved one enjoys a specific bottle of wine, a wine gift set can get them a few bottles of their favorite style or type of wine.

On the other hand, you may not know the exact style of wine your friend or family member enjoys. In that case, a wine gift set can be a good holiday wine gift because you can gift multiple types or styles of wine. A wine gift set can provide numerous flavors, allowing your loved one to try new styles and maybe even find a new favorite bottle of wine.

If you are gifting to a couple, family or even coworkers, holiday wine gift sets may be right for you. You can choose from red, white or sparkling wine gift sets. Some gift sets also feature various styles of wine, allowing you to gift various types of wine.

Boozy advent calendars are a fun, unique option for a light-hearted gift that offers delicious samples of various wines. A boozy wine advent calendar is perfect for any wine lover. A wine advent calendar is a 12-day calendar featuring white, red and rosé wines from around the globe. Count down to the holidays with this delicious advent calendar.

Each day, open up a box to uncover what delicious treat awaits! Wine advent calendars are a great way to enjoy some fan-favorite wines and classic styles. You may also discover your new favorite flavor or style with a wine advent calendar. You can also find whiskey advent calendars and vodka advent calendars. These advent calendars feature a delicious array of spirits, perfect for any cocktail.

A boozy top-shelf varietal advent calendar is also perfect for any cocktail lover. Each day of this advent calendar features a well-known high-end spirit.

Corporate gifts are a great way to show appreciation to coworkers, business partners and clients. Wine can be a thoughtful, elegant gift sure to impress your coworkers or clients. While you can choose a bottle you know your coworkers enjoy, any bottle of wine is sure to be an excellent holiday gift. If you are unsure, you can also buy a gift set featuring different flavors, such as:
• Wines: When it comes to shopping for the right gift for your coworkers or business clients, choosing the right gift may seem challenging. Fortunately, a bottle of wine can be the perfect holiday gift and show your appreciation. Choose from fan-favorite bottles of wine that are sure to impress anyone. You can also pick a unique bottle of wine for a more personal gift and let your coworkers or business clients explore new flavors of wine they may not have tried before.
• Champagne: Champagne is one of the best ways to celebrate any holiday occasion. Gifting a bottle of champagne for the holidays can show your appreciation and be an elegant gift for anyone on your list. Champagne is known to be elegant, sophisticated and luxurious, making it an exceptional holiday gift.
• Spirits: For those who may not be a fan of wine or champagne, you can also gift your coworkers or clients a spirit. There are many spirits to choose from, making them a versatile gift. You can give bourbon, brandy, gin or rum for a sophisticated holiday gesture. Other popular holiday spirits to consider include tequila, vodka, whiskey, cognac and Armagnac.
• Gift certificate: Since there are so many great gifts to choose from, you may not be sure what to choose. Fortunately, you can purchase a wine gift certificate. A gift certificate may be the best way to give someone a thoughtful gift while letting them choose their favorite bottle of wine or spirit.

Champagne and sparkling wines are a great idea for any adult on your holiday list. All champagne is considered sparkling wine, but not every sparkling wine is champagne. There are numerous types of sparkling wine, with champagne being the most common. In addition to champagne, cava and prosecco are also popular sparkling wines.

Champagne gets its name because it originates from the Champagne region of France. Most champagnes are made of three grapes, including Pinot Meunier, Chardonnay and Pinot Noir. Champagne labeled “Blanc de Blancs” means it is made only from chardonnay. On the other hand, champagne labeled “blanc de noirs” is made only from Pinot Noir.

Champagne and sparkling wines are a perfect way to celebrate, and they pair well with numerous dishes. The bubbles of champagne and sparkling wine add a unique taste and increase pairing versatility. Sparkling wines also feature acidity levels that help carry richer, hearty flavors further on the palate.

Champagne often pairs well with cheese and bread and shellfish, shrimp, caviar, calamari, smoked salmon and oysters. You can also serve stuffed mushrooms, salami and meat platters, egg dishes and various vegetables alongside champagne. For dessert, champagne pairs well with most buttered or honeyed desserts, crepes and tarts.

Shortbread cookies are also an ideal dessert to enjoy with champagne and sparkling wine. The bubbles and acidity of champagne pair well with and balance the rich butter flavor of shortbread cookies.

At Marketview Liquor, we are proud to offer an extensive selection of wines, spirits, gifts and accessories. We offer some of the most popular and delicious bottles of wine available and believe that premium wine and spirits should not have to break the bank. We offer numerous deals, promotions and discounts, so our customers can enjoy delicious wine at an affordable price.

View our selection of holiday gift wines and order wine online today to get the perfect gift.Many hosts wonder what kind of wine goes best with Thanksgiving dinner. Fortunately, there are many wine styles and flavors, making it easy to choose a delicious wine that pairs perfectly with your appetizers or meal. When selecting a wine that goes best with your Thanksgiving dinner, consider your personal preference and what you will be enjoying during your meal. Simplify choosing a good wine by buying it in advance and storing the bottles properly until Thanksgiving. You can store wine in a cool place, such as a wine fridge, cellar or closet away from heat.

Best Types of Wine for Thanksgiving Dinner

What kind of wine to bring for Thanksgiving is an important aspect of planning your holiday meal. With many flavors being served on Thanksgiving, you want to select the wine that complements the delicious food. Many kinds of wine go well with Thanksgiving dinner like Pinot Noir, Prosecco, and Cabernet. Most pair well with appetizers and desserts too. When choosing what type of wine goes best with your Thanksgiving dinner, select one that complements a variety of foods rather than one specific flavor.

Beaujolais is a region in France, located near Switzerland’s border and north of Lyon. Beaujolais is a lighter-bodied red wine with low tannins and higher levels of acidity. In most cases, a Beaujolais wine features notes of various red berry flavors, including red cherry, cranberries, raspberry and red currant.

Beaujolais is a versatile wine that pairs well with a range of foods and dishes, making it a good drink for your Thanksgiving meal. Like other lighter-bodied red wines, Beaujolais pairs well with roasted light cuts of meat, including turkey, chicken and pork. Light salads are also a great dish to serve alongside a Beaujolais wine.

While you can serve a glass of Beaujolais wine with any course of your meal, it also is perfect for enjoying on its own before or after your dish. Beaujolais wine often goes well with a cheese course featuring Camembert, Brie and more flavorful cheeses. One rule for pairing Beaujolais wine with dinner is it complements almost anything served off a grill.

Pinot Noir is a light-bodied wine with red fruity flavors and spicy aromas for a smooth, delicious finish. The flavor profile of Pinot Noir varies based on the region where it was produced. Pinot Noir from France often has flavors of rose petals, cherry, hibiscus and more. On the other hand, California Pinot Noir often features notes of raspberry, vanilla, allspice and more.

Pinot Noir is known for its silky tannins and red fruit flavors. It is an excellent wine with your Thanksgiving meal if you are serving grilled meats or fish. Pinot Noir is a light-bodied and more delicate wine with higher acidity and lower levels of tannins, helping it pair well with lighter meats, including pork, chicken and duck.

Pinot Noir is one of the top wines that go best with Thanksgiving turkey. If you are serving a more robust Pinot Noir, you can also serve this wine alongside pheasant, partridge and even grouse. Grilled meats also complement the deep berry flavors of Pinot Noir. If you are serving smoky or sweet grilled or barbecue flavors, including venison, rack of lamb or beef tenderloin, a Pinot Noir can go well with these dishes.

A California Cabernet is one of the best wines for Thanksgiving dinner because it features various fruit notes, including raspberry, red cherry, black currant and blackberry. You may also find notes of black pepper or vanilla, depending on the style of Cabernet. California Cabernets are typically dry, have high acidity and high levels of tannins.

California Cabernet is a fun drink to have for Thanksgiving dinner if you are serving lamb or a hearty cut of meat, including steak. California Cabernet can balance the fatty proteins of these meats and enhance the flavor of your meal. When choosing a cut of meat to pair with a California Cabernet, it is typically recommended to select a cut on the fattier side with richer flavors.

A Cabernet also pairs well with dishes featuring portobello mushrooms, especially when topped with fattier foods, including butter or cheese. If you are serving a cheese spread or board, a California Cabernet can balance these flavors. In general, avoid pairing softer cheeses with a Cabernet and opt for cheeses like gouda, gorgonzola or aged cheddar.

A red blend is a red wine not limited to a single specific variety and blends two different types of grapes. If you wonder what wine to bring for Thanksgiving, a red blend can be a great choice to pair with your meal. California red blends are prepared from various red grapes, which are fermented before any blending occurs.

Red blends can vary in body, flavor, alcohol content and acidity depending on the grapes used. In most cases, a California red blend is ideal for pairing with meat dishes or richer entrées. Red wines are typically stronger in flavor and bolder, making them perfect for more robust meals and cuts of meat. A heavier red blend can complement a rack of lamb or rich cuts of steak.

More moderate red blends may complement less robust dishes, including pasta. Because red blends are so versatile, few dishes will not pair well with a red blend. One rule of thumb to know is a more robust red wine often does not go well with lighter dishes, including salads and seafood. While red wines are a delicious choice for dinner, their strong flavor profiles may easily overwhelm a dish’s more delicate flavors.

A dry Riesling is an aromatic wine with high acidity levels and is often a good wine to bring to Thanksgiving to complement the flavors of your vegetable dishes, especially those with light sauces. A dry Riesling also pairs well with seafood and chicken, as well as pasta dishes. Avoid pairing with stronger sauces, including marinara or tomato-based sauces.

One of the best pairings for dry Riesling is sides or dishes with roasted root vegetables. The simple flavors of roasted vegetables pair well with the crisp taste of a dry Riesling. A heavier wine could easily overwhelm the simple flavors of a light vegetable dish. A unique side to pair with a dry Riesling is a broccoli apple salad, which uses mustard, complementing Rieseling’s flavor profile.

You can also serve lemon caper halibut with a dry Riesling, an excellent complement to a dry Riesling. This combination allows the flavors of both the dish and wine to stand out. Chicken piccata is another popular dish to enjoy, which features much of its flavor from briny capers and acidic lemon juice. The clean flavors of a dry Riesling enhance these simple flavors without overwhelming them.

A Bordeaux wine refers to wine originating from Bordeaux, France. Most Bordeaux wines are red and made with Cabernet Sauvignon and Merlot. Bordeaux wines are generally medium-bodied to full-bodied wines with notes of plum and black currant. At first, Bordeaux wine has notes of fruit and earthy tones that turn into a more savory flavor.

There are many styles of Bordeaux wine ranging from sweeter ripe fruits to more tart fruit flavors. There are two regions of Bordeaux, France, where the wine is made. Bordeaux wines originating from the left bank pair well with saltier, fattier or spicier meals of lamb or steak. If you serve leaner types of meats with your Thanksgiving meal, such as pork or duck, Bordeaux wines from the right bank complement these types of meat.

Prosecco wine is a sparkling wine often served before meals or with appetizers. Prosecco wines range from dry to sweet and are typically light, clean and refreshing, making them ideal wines to enjoy before a large meal. If you are considering what wine to bring to Thanksgiving, you may want to consider prosecco wine because it is perfect for a pre-dinner toast or with hors d’oeuvres.

The bubbles in prosecco wine are often finer than the bubbles in traditional Champagne because of the unique way this sparkling wine is made. Prosecco is a good Thanksgiving wine because it pairs well with Thanksgiving turkey and herbed turkey breast.

How to Decide What Wine Goes Well With Thanksgiving Dinner

When deciding what wine pairs best with Thanksgiving dinner, consider your personal preference as well as your guests. A good white wine for Thanksgiving dinner should have well-balanced acidity. A good red wine for Thanksgiving should feature tame tannins that support your meal’s various flavors.

If you are wondering how to pick a bottle of wine for Thanksgiving, you can also consider the appetizers, side dishes and entrees being served. If you are looking for a wine that pairs well with turkey or chicken, consider white wine to complement these flavors. For steak or lamb, choose a red wine to enhance these flavors.

The best wine for Thanksgiving depends largely on personal preference and what is on the menu. If you are unsure of exactly what may be served at a Thanksgiving meal you are attending, consider sparkling wine, such as prosecco, which complements many foods and can be perfect for a toast before or after dinner.

How Much Wine Should You Buy for Dinner?

When determining how much wine to buy for Thanksgiving dinner, one of the first things to consider is the number of guests attending. Overall, the ideal amount of wine varies from guest to guest, so you can always buy an extra bottle to be safe and have a little more than needed than running out of wine during your meal.

The size of wine bottles also varies greatly depending on brand and style. In many cases, your Thanksgiving dinner guests may also drink a little bit more wine if it is served before dinner than only being served during your meal.

In general, four guests may be satisfied with one to two bottles, eight guests with two to three bottles and 12 guests with four to five bottles. For parties larger than 15 guests, you may need six to seven bottles of wine.

How much wine you need also depends on if you want to offer multiple styles of wine or just a particular flavor. Some hosts enjoy offering just white or red wine to their guests. Others provide many wine types, including red, white, blush, sherry, fruit and different wine styles.

One of the most important things about choosing the perfect wine or wines for your Thanksgiving is not to overthink them. Wine is a fun aspect of your Thanksgiving meal that guests will always enjoy. Choose styles and flavors that sound delicious, or your guests would like to try. Fortunately, wine is versatile and delicious, making it easy to select a wine that complements your Thanksgiving dinner.

When preparing for your Thanksgiving meal, you may wonder what kind of wine is good with Thanksgiving dinner. While there are many rules and advice to follow when crafting food and wine pairings, one of the most important things to remember is having fun and knowing you can enjoy virtually any wine style with any meal you choose.

Some wines may complement specific flavor profiles better, but all wines make for a tasty addition to your holiday spread. While you have the freedom to experiment with different flavors and types, there are many popular food and wine pairings that wine and food lovers agree complement one another perfectly. Some of the best food and wine pairings include:
• Pinot Noir: Pinot Noir complements a wide range of Thanksgiving dishes, with fruitier versions being an ideal pairing with salmon and fatty fish, pasta dishes and roasted chicken. Pinot Noir with more tannins may be better for game birds like duck or beef bourguignon or casseroles. Some vegetables Pinot Noir pairs well with include asparagus, beetroot and brussels sprouts.
• Sauvignon Blanc: Sauvignon Blanc is an excellent alternative to chardonnay and is a crisp white wine. Because Sauvignon Blanc is versatile, it is a flexible choice that complements cheese platters, especially goat cheese, oysters, fresh herbs, mild vinaigrettes and delicate fish. Fresh or roasted green vegetables, including artichokes, zucchini, asparagus and peas, are scrumptious Thanksgiving sides that pair well with Sauvignon Blanc.
• Champagne: Champagne is one of the most versatile wines and often contains a small amount of sugar and high acidity levels. Because Champagne is so versatile, it pairs well with many dishes, including Thanksgiving dishes with nuts or mushrooms. Cheese is commonly paired with Champagne, especially aged, hard cheeses, including gouda, parmesan and cheddar. You can also pair Champagne with seafood, including lobster, risottos and pasta.
• Chardonnay: In general, a medium to full-bodied Chardonnay pairs well with any food you typically put butter on. Some of the most common flavor combinations with Chardonnay include halibut, polenta, sage-butter chicken and seafood with butter. If you are serving grilled or baked chicken, salmon, lobster, crab or shrimp for Thanksgiving dinner, you may want to consider pairing this with a Chardonnay.
• Pinot Grigio: Pinot Grigio is generally considered to have a fairly neutral flavor profile, making it an ideal choice to serve before a Thanksgiving meal begins. Pinot Grigio does not draw away from the flavor of any main dishes as it does not typically have any overbearing flavors. You can pair it with seafood, chicken, salads and light risottos and pasta dishes. You may want to avoid heavy creams or sauces when pairing your meal with Pinot Grigio.
• Cabernet Sauvignon: Cabernet Sauvignon pairs well with steaks, especially fattier cuts like sirloin or ribeye. When paired with Cabernet Sauvignon, these steaks are best served rare to medium-rare. Cabernet Sauvignon also pairs excellently with Thanksgiving dishes including braised beef and beef short ribs for a decadent meal. Pair it with slow-braised beef, venison, lamb meals and portobello mushrooms. Crab or shrimp salad, poached salmon, calamari and grilled halibut are also delicious meals complemented with a Cabernet Sauvignon.
• Dry rosé: Dry rosé pairs incredibly well with lighter dishes, especially light seafood dishes. You can also pair cured meats and a cheese spread with a bottle of rosé during your Thanksgiving meal. Rosé also pairs well with spicy foods, as well as barbecue foods while still retaining their refreshing and light notes.

4 Tips on Choosing Wine to Bring to Someone’s House for Dinner

A bottle of wine is a lovely gift for someone hosting a dinner that can be a delicious addition to any meal. Because there are so many styles and types of wine, you may wonder what wine goes with Thanksgiving dinner, especially if you are visiting a family member or friend for dinner. When considering what wine pairs with Thanksgiving turkey and dinner, consider these four tips:

Chances are, if you like a specific wine, your host or Thanksgiving dinner guests may also enjoy this wine. If you know a particular bottle of wine your host enjoys, bring a bottle as a nice gift. You may also want to note if any guests dislike a particular style of wine, as this is best to avoid if you are providing wine for all guests at dinner.

In both cooking and wines, there are almost endless flavors and combinations to think about. Think about the different ingredients in a Thanksgiving meal, especially the main flavors of a dish, usually the protein. The secondary flavor source to consider is the cream or sauce.

When selecting a wine, match the food’s intensity with the wine’s intensity and flavor profile. For example, you would not want to pair a light wine with a hearty ribeye steak. A salty dish will reduce your ability to perceive acidity, so a highly acidic or sweeter wine may be ideal for a dish with higher sodium levels.

If you are not very familiar with wine, you want to understand the difference between sweet and dry wines. One of the main differences comes down to grapes. Grapes used for sweet wines are harvested later, making them less acidic and much sweeter than those in dry wines. Dry wines use grapes that are often gathered much earlier when they are more acidic. Sweet and dry wines have distinct flavors and are often paired with different foods.

If you are unsure of a particular wine you or the host enjoy, you can always choose a fan favorite. Champagne or sparkling wine is often a common choice because of its versatility, which can be incredibly useful if you are unsure what meal will be served on Thanksgiving.

There are many dishes and flavor profiles that pair well with Champagne and sparkling wines. Even if sparkling wine is not served with dinner, it can be a great addition to appetizers or as a pre-dinner toast. When deciding what kind of wine goes good with Thanksgiving dinner, start with classic wine styles and flavors.

When looking for what wine goes good with Thanksgiving dinner, look no further than Marketview Liquor. We are proud to offer a wide variety of wines perfect for your Thanksgiving dinner. While many of our wines are ideal for Thanksgiving dinner, they are also versatile and a great addition to any meal or party. Browse our selection of wine and plan your holiday meal.The founders of Oregon’s wine industry were onto something. The rich, volcanic soil, the mountain-cloaked hills, the moderate temperatures and long growing season make this Pacific Northwest state a winemaker’s Eden. The sustainability of the region’s natural growing conditions doesn’t hurt, either.

Amid all this, Oregonian wine often goes underappreciated — and even neglected. We’re here to change that, celebrating the best wine regions of Oregon’s vibrant, eclectic wine repertoire.
• Explore the Best of Oregon’s Wines

Oregon contains 19 official wine-growing regions, or appellations. Tucked within these 19 appellations are over 750 wineries producing 72 distinct grape varietals annually.

As a whole, Oregon’s cooler climate brings temperate days and crisp nights, letting grapes mature longer on the vines and retaining their signature acidity. However, there are crucial distinctions across its 19 major appellations. From rainfall amounts and soil composition to topography, each Oregonian winery’s outputs reflect of these unique conditions. The result is an array of flavor profiles, palates, bodies and textures.
• Columbia Gorge: The 40-mile Columbia Gorge AVA straddles the Oregon-Washington border and boasts being “America’s most unique wine region.” It certainly is a distinct one. With vines tracing the cold Columbia River and shadowed between Mt. Adams and Mt. Hood, Columbia Gorge produces expressively fruity, light and bright varietals due to its alpine-like terroir.
• Portland-area wineries: Portland is a trendsetter for many reasons, including its urban winery scene. The city contains 15 official wineries sourcing varietals from across the state, yet blending and bottling within the City of Roses. Its burgeoning wine scene comes on the heels of the city’s wider foodie renaissance, making Portland a premier destination for hungry, curious tourists to wine connoisseurs seeking niche favorites.
• Southern Oregon: Oregon’s Southern AVA threads the mighty Cascade Mountains, starting at the base of Eugene and reaching down to Oregon’s southwest corner. It is the state’s warmest AVA, with more arid growing conditions compared to the rest of Oregon. The Southern Oregon AVA is also distinct for its highly sedimentary soil and vineyard positionings along high points of its rolling mountainside valleys, allowing vines to capture and retain ripening moisture.
• Walla Walla Valley: Fun to say and even more fun to explore, Walla Walla Valley’s wines come from a 2,000-acre spread of loess and basalt bedrock sitting in the shadows of the Palouse and Blue Mountains. Wines here balance vibrant berry notes with tart, tongue-tickling acidity, coaxed during the region’s warm summers followed by heavy annual rainfalls.
• Willamette Valley: The largest of Oregon’s wine AVAs, Willamette Valley is home the highest concentration of wineries in the entire state. It sits perfectly positioned for cool-climate grape outputs, producing some of Oregon’s best pinot noirs. This grape varietal, in particular, benefits greatly from Willamette Valley’s coastal marine characteristics, mild-temperature wet winters, sunny, gentle summers and naturally well-draining soil.

Explore these top five major wine-growing regions in Oregon to begin discovering all the state has to offer.

Wines from Oregon are finally receiving the praise they deserve. Lush, bright and often balancing berry fruit notes with fresh bursts of acidity, the state’s top varietals include pinot noirs, pinot gris and merlot — though why stop there?

Explore some of Oregon’s major wine subregions producing some of the highest-quality red and white wines in the U.S.

Tucked neatly in a 50-mile spread between the California border and Rogue River’s Grant’s Pass, Applegate Valley represents Oregon’s wine history itself.

Not only is it where Oregon’s very first official winery, Valley View, opened in 1873. Applegate Valley also cultivates one of the most extensive range of grape varietals in its home state, including warm-weather varietals like Syrah and Rhone-style red blends difficult to master in Oregon’s cooler northern AVAs.

Other noted Applegate Valley varietals include snappy zinfandels, medium-bodied malbecs and rather jammy cabernet sauvignons. Many of these grapes grow on vines perched on higher elevations, sometimes nearly 2,000 feet above sea level, hugged by the region’s notably dryer air. Many Applegate Valley vineyards harness natural topological elements like alluvial fans or the region’s stream terraces to help trap and flush moisture, creating a granite-based loamy soil perfect for vine drainage.

Today’s Applegate Valley wineries carry on the legacy of grape diversity and distinction. Many are family-run, and you can visit most of them on an official or self-paced tour along Applegate Wine Trail.

The Chehalem Mountains, located in the expansive Willamette Valley AVA, rose to fame in the late 1970s after a blossoming of noted wine pioneers purchased plots near its namesake mountain range. They quickly took to embracing the region’s highly variable temperatures and winter rainfalls. Weather conditions are so variable throughout the Chehalems that some vineyards only a few miles apart will experience weeks-long differences in the ripening of their grapes, leading to significant tasting and olfactory differences.

Pinot noir reigns supreme in the Chehalem Mountain subregion. That’s because pinot noir grapes, perhaps more than any other wine varietal, ripen quickly when exposed to too much heat. Aggravated ripening leads to immature, sharp and flat wines worsened by a pinot noir’s preference for soft, supple soil. Together, these conditions cut pinot noir from the list of many other region’s favored plantings — but make it perfect for Chehalem.

Travel along its 20-mile-long, only five-mile-wide border, and you’ll encounter some of the New World’s finest pinot noir varieties. You’ll pick up fragrant and delicate variations in oak aging and fermentation techniques harmonized by the varietal’s medium tannins and elegant, silky finish.

Roughly an hour’s drive outside Portland sits the Columbia Gorge, one of Oregon’s oldest and finest subregions.

Don’t let its size fool you. While Columbia Gorge’s regional border is barely 40 miles in total, its winemakers cultivate an incredible number of high-quality varietals from its mountainous terrain, developing some prolific cool-climate varietals starting to turn heads in the wine world.

One unique characteristic of the Columbia Gorge subregion is its silty, ancient volcanic soil, heavily influenced from the nearby Cascade Mountains. To keep things interesting, try wines from wineries in both Columbia Gorge’s eastern and western plots. This longitudinal terroir difference is one of the most striking and influential aspect of Columbia Gorge producers. Those in the east experience high desert climates, blocked from the Pacific weather and moisture influences of their western cousins. With barely 10 inches of annual rainfall, east Columbia Gorge wines will include varietals from Syrah and chardonnay to Sangiovese, while the cooler west welcomes vines like pinot gris and riesling.

American history buffs may take a particular liking to Columbia Gorge, as well. As the only westward sea-level passage through the Cascade Mountain Range, Columbia Gorge saw the likes of the Lewis and Clark expedition traverse through its canyon on their way to the Pacific.

With over 11 million acres to its name, Columbia Valley is an expansive Oregon state wine region with plenty to offer new and seasoned wine lovers alike.

Come for the wine, stay for the breathtaking landscapes. Natural landmarks define most of the appellation’s borders, including steady mountain slopes to the west and north and the Columbia River itself claiming the south. The valley is also home to a lace-like tapestry of tributaries weaving through the valley floor, each serving as a backdrop near many vineyard benchlands.

Naturally well-draining yet dry, sandy soil makes up Columbia Valley’s terroir. The northern region averages at most 10 inches of rainfall a year, though six to eight is far more common. Many Columbia Valley wine producers plant their vines along southern-facing slopes, aiming to capitalize on the subregion’s continental desert climate. This positioning lets grapes reap the rewards of long, slow, warm ripening during the day and reliable cool-down periods at night, preserving their precious acidity.

Popular varietals grown in Oregon’s Columbia Valley include cabernet sauvignon, merlot and grenache, as well as Rhone and Bordeaux-style red blends. Red zinfandel is also relatively common and was the first varietal introduced to the area over 100 years ago.

A hop and a skip away from Portland — and only 40 miles from the Pacific Ocean — Dundee Hills blends cool-climate growing conditions with high-slope positioning to produce some of Oregon’s most acclaimed bottles.

Part of the subregion’s success is its rich, mineral-dense red volcanic Jory soil indigenous to the area. Vineyards here enjoy the nutrients awarded from clay, silt and loam components and superior drainage. This Jory soil also runs relatively deep, in some places extending up to six feet beneath the surface before revealing denser soil types.

We can thank the region’s volcanic activity as well as active tectonic plates for its prime grape-growing conditions. Most Dundee Hill growers plant their vineyards along north-south ridges, called spines, sitting around 1,000 feet above sea level. This elevation is much higher than neighboring subregions plant theirs, yet furthers the soil’s natural drainage and provides the perfect spot to plant fickle pinot noir grapes. Dundee Hills also receives a fair amount of rainfall. Winemakers can expect between 30 to 50 inches annually, mostly outside of the growing season, though.

On top of their award-winning pinot noir, Dundee Hills is home to some excellent pinot gris and riesling labels. For off-the-beaten-path drinkers, Dundee Hill-produced sparkling and dessert wines can be exceptionally complex and delicious, making the perfect end to a meal with friends.

Another subregion of the Willamette Valley, Eola-Amity, is a distinct area sitting right near Oregon’s capital of Salem.

Cool coastal air leaks through Van Duzer Corridor just west of Eola-Amity. The crisp, saline winds help maintain more moderate temperatures even during the hottest summer months. It is also a significant reason Eola-Amity Hills wineries produce the lush, high-acidity wines they do, watered by over 40 inches of rain a year. We’re not complaining.

Pinot noir, pinot gris and chardonnay dominate the landscape here. Each of these varietals benefits from Eola-Amity Hills’ cool climates and volcanic-basalt soil, enriched by ancient lava residue and sediment. Wineries at lower sea level ridges may find their soil slightly on the rockier side. The combination of shallow rocks with deeper, volcanic-infused compounds is the perfect combination for higher-bodied, more concentrated wines. Again, we’re not complaining.

Given the region’s size, Eola-Amity Hills releases tend to go fast — especially the small-release experimental varietals that come from a few of its staple vineyards. With over 100 registered vineyards within its AVA borders, it also isn’t difficult to find a producer. The region has earned a reputation for its commitment to sustainability and biodynamic practices, with many of its vineyards committed to this type of winemaking.

Stumble into the northwest corner of Willamette Valley, and you may find yourself in McMinnville.

The subregion is named after its nearest town and encompasses what it means to be in the Willamette region — but with a few twists. Vineyards here tend to sit higher than their valley neighbors, sometimes up to 1,000 feet above sea level. The higher elevations prevent frost from reaching the grapes, as well as produce slightly drier moisture levels and higher temperatures during the growing season.

McMinnville still benefits from coastal air that seeps through the gorge opening of the nearby Van Duzer Corridor, balancing its naturally arid-leaning environment. The result is a complex, well-balanced range of varietals expressing sweet and acidic notes, rounded by firm bodies and lingering finishes.

Wine lovers worldwide may know McMinnville for another reason. Every year, the namesake town hosts the International Pinot Noir Celebration. With a name like that, we bet you can guess its focus: three days dedicated to everything and anything pinot noir, including tastings, tours, farm-to-table food pairings, educational seminars, special events and much more. The celebration draws in hundreds of attendees and vendors annually, animating the local economy and making McMinnville a must-do pilgrimage for pinot noir lovers.

The Rocks District of Milton Freewater, barely totaling six square miles, is the second-smallest subregion in all of Oregon. The tiny district produces high-quality wines on par with far larger regions due to its unique terroir, earning its AVA designation in 2017.

Syrahs rule the roost around the Rocks District. Most notably, syrahs from Milton-Freewater vineyards carry rich, heavy and even perfumed aromas punctuated by a unique flavor palate. Tasters experience that quintessential cool-climate fruitiness balanced by bold florals like violets and lavender. The Rocks District takes things even further, elevating fresh black pepper, licorice and truffle flavors against a strong, acidic backbone.

Most Rocks District Syrah producers try to avoid introducing oak flavors into the fold. Though syrahs age well, the heaviness of oak barreling can often clash with the acidic and aromatic signatures of their region’s claim to fame.

The Rocks District gets its name from its distinct soil as well. Rockier and drier than many other areas in the state, the Rocks District of Milton-Freewater best supports hearty, deep-rooted grape varietals. Some are so robust that you can still find patches of wild vines sprinkled across the oldest vineyards in Walla Walla Valley — some dating back to the Gold Rush.

Consider Rogue Valley the melting pot of Oregonian wines. Unlike any other subregion on the list, Rogue Valley supports both warm and cool-climate varietals. Not only that, but it maintains some of the most diverse and varied soil types in the entire state, each tucked into progressively higher elevations across Rogue Valley’s three major zones. Each valley also holds a unique micro-climate, the cherry on top of a truly exceptional Oregon wine region.

Vineyards in the western half of Rogue Valley are the lowest and coolest. Perched at the foothills of the Siskiyou Mountains, eastern Rogue Valley’s loamy soil and ocean-initiated rainfalls are ideal for thin-skinned, compact grapes like pinot noir and pinot gris. Travel east, and you enter new wine territory: The denser clay-like soil mixes with warmer, dryer air and higher overall topography levels much better for warm-climate grapes like cabernet sauvignon and sauvignon blanc. Some east Rogue Valley wineries even grow varietals at our just over 2,000 feet above sea level, making them among the highest-elevated wineries in the state.

Just about any grape varietal can grow somewhere in Rogue Valley. The 70-mile-wide, 60-mile-long subregion is remarkable not only among the best wine regions in Oregon, but in the entire United States.

If Rogue Valley is the melting pot of Oregonian wines, consider Snake River Valley the Goldilocks of Oregon’s warm-climate varietals.

The Snake River Valley is the only major subregion AVA in Southeast Oregon. With its distinct location comes an equally unusual climate, soil and elevation levels, producing signature wines unlike any other in the state.

Most of the Snake River Valley sits between 2,500 and 3,000 feet above sea level. Many experts point to this elevation as a geographic gold standard for vineyard growth, away from the breezy, brined gusts of the Pacific Ocean. Seasonal temperature shifts drive growth conditions here. The Snake River Valley experiences four separate seasons, including winter temperatures dipping low enough for vines to go dormant. This rest rejuvenates nutrients in the soil beds, and also kills off many infections bugs and vine diseases.

When the warmer months roll around, grapes get treated to sweetening sunbaths during the day yet mild temperatures at night. The hot-cold dynamic balances the sugary fruit and tart acidic notes of Snake River Valley wines so prized for their complexity.

This four-season cycle is part of the reason sustainable and biodynamic wine production is not only reasonable, but standard practice in the Snake River Valley. With over 8,000 square miles to play with, its producers won’t be running out of room to do so anytime soon.

Umpqua Valley might be the reason Oregon is on the world’s wine radar.

It was here that Richard Sommer, one of the founding figures of Oregonian wine, first planted pinot noir and riesling grapes in 1961. Many in his viticulture circle thought him crazy, saying no vineyards would take in Oregon. Boy, were they wrong.

Fast-forward to today, and Umpqua has blossomed into three distinct wine-growing zones. The northern zone, near Elkton, produces beautiful pinot noirs within its rainy, sandy, cool-climate setting. The southern zone mirrors the topography and dry climate of its neighboring Rogue Valley and grows syrahs, cabernet sauvignons and merlots with aplomb. Finally, Umpqua’s central zone does it all, offering both warm and cool varietals delicately balancing sweetness and acidity.

All three of its valleys sit nestled between the Coastal Range to its west and the Cascades to its east. When seeking all Oregon’s regions have to offer, look no further than Umpqua Valley wines.

Tucked into northwest Oregon is the quaint, cozy Yamhill-Carlton wine region, which unquestionably makes some of Oregon’s best pinot noirs.

This task is no small undertaking, seeing as pinot noir is the signature varietal of the state. Yamhill-Carlton’s high elevation nestled into three separate mountain ranges means it receives just the right mix of sun, rain, frost and soil drainage to satisfy the notoriously fussy pinot noir. The subregion’s sandstone and siltstone soil makeup don’t hurt, either, lending a unique, soft minerality to its varietals.

Other cool-climate grapes like riesling and chardonnay do well here, though they must compete with the notoriety of Yamhill-Carlton’s pinot noirs for the same celebrity appeal. We say play it safe and try them all.

Explore the Best of Oregon’s Wines

Marketview Liquor has a wide selection of Oregon wines sourced straight from the state’s top regions and winemakers.

Browse our Oregon wine catalog to pick out old and new favorites. You can place your order online and we’ll ship it right to your doorstep.For far too long, Halloween has taken a bit of a backseat to all the other big autumn holidays. No more. It is high time for Halloween to step out on its own, starting with Halloween-themed wines and wine cocktails!

Whether you are hosting a masquerade at your house or heading out to someone else’s place for a trick-or-treat party, be ready for anything with some good wine on hand. Remember that wine makes the perfect gift for your adult friends who arrange fun dress-up celebrations at the end of each October.

The Best Wine for Halloween Parties

If you are planning on hosting a Halloween party and providing adult-friendly beverages this year, you have options when it comes to conjuring the spirit of October 31st. Halloween is the best time to combine old favorites with novel delights. Halloween wines to look for include anything with the words “skeleton,” “vampire,” “werewolf,” “ghost” or “blood” on the label of the bottle — and there are quite a few!
• Syrah and shiraz: With nose-lifting aromas of oak, spice and red berry fruits, syrah wine is perfect for enjoying or serving with your favorite tapas.
• Cabernet sauvignon: The many varieties of this Halloween wine are known for their full-bodied, fruit-forward taste, long-lasting finish and soft velvety tannins.
• Red blend wine: Red blend is a label appellation for red wines made up of more than one grape variety in the final cuvée. These wines vary in ageability, structure, flavor, color and aroma, and are sure to appeal to all of your Halloween guests. Dark and sultry, red blends often contain deep berry flavors mingling with chocolate and coffee notes and are the perfect devilish addition to your Halloween table.
• Malbec: Known for its smoky finish and plump, dark fruit flavors, malbec wine offers a great alternative to syrah and cabernet sauvignon.

If themes get you excited, why not choose your Halloween wines based on the colors and flavors of the season? Orange is a strong motif throughout Halloween decor, so consider serving a Blood Orange Rose. Roses are light and crisp, which makes them easy to drink. You can even add this orange-infused variety to a homemade sangria for an extra citrusy kick.

Along with orange, black is another classic color that pairs with Halloween. Knowing this, why not have all wines with black labels on your Halloween party table? A good type of wine to choose is Cabernet Sauvignon. In addition to looking the part, many of these wines are spicy and oaky, making them excellent drinks for wine enthusiasts who want to enjoy a complex adult beverage.

For a fitting name, Ghost Pines Chardonnay is hard to beat. Surprisingly, this is a Chardonnay that is not terribly dry, owing to its spicy, fruity crispness. Plus, it is as playful as it comes owing to its name. Of course, Argentinian Skeleton Malbec may be close on its heels. Never be afraid to purchase a few wines new to you for a chance to raise the spirits of your Halloween guests!

In addition to pouring generous glasses of Halloween wines, you may want to experiment with some wine cocktails to add a little creativity to the festivities. An easy mixture is to lighten any red wine by half with lemon-lime soda and a dash of fresh cut-up fruits such as oranges and strawberries. The result is light and lovely, a cocktail that boasts flavor without being overpowering.

Another drink to test out has pinkish tones. All you need is 1.5 ounces of any Pinot Noir and 1.5 ounces of silver tequila to start. Pour the liquids over ice and add half an ounce each of agave nectar and juice from a fresh lime. Finish the drink with two ounces of your favorite citrusy, sugar-free soda water. These pink drinks can be easily made in cocktail shakers and distributed to your masked visitors.

Halloween deserves a second look this year, so pick out some wine for your Halloween party. You do not have to be scared at the idea of trying something new. In fact, Halloween is one of the best times of the year to mix and match old favorites with unheard of delights. Order bottles or cases of Halloween wine from Marketview Liquor online.Ever wondered what the heck those words mean at a wine tasting? Maybe you’re watching your favorite cooking show, and the host starts spouting a dictionary of terms and definitions about how to properly pair wine with food — only you have no idea what they’re saying. Take our Wine Pairing Quiz and let our wine specialist help you out with that!

It’s all fun and games until wine tasting vocab turns into a foreign language. Here’s your go-to, basic wine terminology to know to navigate your way around the wine world like a master sommelier. (Don’t worry, we’ll explain what that one means, too.)

Consider the following your foundation to important wine terms and definitions.

Acidity refers to the tart, lively notes that hit the tongue after sipping wine. The more a wine activates these dancing sensations on your tongue, the higher its acidity level.

You can determine your wine’s general acidity by counting how long its tartness lingers after swallowing. Acidity that fades before 15 seconds is considered low, between 15 and 30 seconds medium and 30 seconds or longer high.

A wine’s acidity level also influences how much it activates our salivatory glands. Higher-acid wines tend to produce more powerful salivatory reactions. This is the main reason why so many hearty dishes pair best with high-acidity wines since the salivatory activations help “cut” through heavy sauces, creams, cheeses, meat fat trimmings and more.

At its most basic, appellation names the subregion where a wines’ grapes were grown. For example, Sonoma County in California is considered an appellation, as is the Burgundy region in France or Castilla y Leon in Spain.

An appellation will contain a “fingerprint” of environmental, geographic and cultural conditions that create its unique grape profile. Every wine-producing country in the world maintains a list of appellations whose weather, soil, climate and more results in the same grape varietal looking and tasting differently. An appellation will also adhere to regionally set laws on how a wine can be produced, beginning with the grape’s cultivation down to the type of aging and bottling techniques the wine can receive.

Aroma refers to the smells produced by and associated with a specific type of grape. Also known as primary aroma, these “signature” smells are typically classified according to being fruity, floral or herbaceous. Wine drinkers use primary aromas to help identify the type of wine they’re consuming during blind taste tests as well as to profile the complexity or maturity of a varietal.

The word astringent is commonly used during wine tastings to describe the sharp, drying and puckering sensation caused by drinking wine with high tannins.

Less effective astringent wines tend to be harsher and even slightly bitter, leaving an ashy flavor in the mouth. On the other hand, more balanced wines can still be astringent, leading to that puckering note. Yet they’ll also carry notable sweet and acidic qualities, harmonizing all tastes and sensations.

A “blend” is a type of wine made from two or more wine grape varietals. Blends make up just over 10% of wine drunken in the U.S. and are the third-most-popular type of wine consumed.

Wineries combine grapes typically to pair complementary flavors together, therefore creating a more dynamic, complex wine profile. Popular wine varietal blends include syrah and pinot noir for added body/weight and chardonnay, pinot noir and Pinot Meunier to make classic French champagne.

Body describes the weight and texture of wine in your mouth as you drink.

While wine tasting, people generally tend to categorize a wine’s body into three levels:
• Full-bodied: Heavy and lush, with the richest and boldest flavors lingering the longest in your mouth after you swallow.
• Medium-bodied: A firm yet approachable wine, with modestly intense flavors and slight lingering palate.
• Light-bodied: Light and subtle, more watery as you drink with flavor notes that disappear quickly between sips.

Both red and white wines have full-, medium- and light-bodied versions.

Pro tip: When it comes to red wines, there tends to be a correlation between body and acidity. Fully-bodied red wines will generally contain less acidity, making them richer, heavier and silkier to drink. A great example of this is a merlot. Conversely, lighter red wines like dolcetto or zinfandels tend to have higher levels of acidity and more of that drying, puckering feel.

Bouquet describes the smell of a specific bottle of wine. Also known as a wine’s “secondary aroma,” the bouquet is often one of the first characteristics discussed to classify and rate a wine. Tasters will take large whiffs of their wine before and while drinking to reveal the fundamental connection between taste and smell and to pick up the nuances of a particular vintage.

And while the term automatically denotes floral smells, bouquet can also describe other olfactory notes. Petroleum, baking spices, vanilla, nuts, yeast, yogurt, cured meat, smoke and more are common bouquet descriptions you’ll hear noted during wine tastings.

Decanting is the act of opening a bottle of wine and pouring its contents into a second container, preferably a designated wine decanter.

Trading wine vessels like this is an essential step for many aged wines. First, decanting ensures you don’t pour any unwanted residual sediment into your glass, which is typically leftover from a wine’s aging and fermentation process. (See “lees” below for more on this.) Second, decanting allows wines “to breathe” — that is, to take in oxygen and chemically express its full range of flavors.

Heavy, full-bodied wines like cabernet sauvignons and syrahs benefit best from decanting and should be opened and transferred a minimum of 30 minutes before serving.

Dry is a taste description used to denote wines that trigger a tongue clicking, or puckering, sensation.

Dry is typically seen as the opposite of sweet. Red, white and rosé wines can be dry. When wine tasting, many people will categorize a wine on a spectrum from “dry” to “off-dry” to “sweet,” with off-dry wines sitting somewhere in the middle. Wines that are described as dry will be notably less fruity than their sweet counterparts and carry less residual candied or fruit flavors.

Earthy is wine vocabulary for when a wine smells or tastes vegetal or “green.”

Earthy aromas can often serve as a tell for what varietal a wine is made from, such as bell peppers for cabernet sauvignons. Similarly, earthy bouquets help distinguish subregions and wineries from one another, with fermentation and aging techniques coaxing additional green or natural smells into a vintage.

Earthy can also describe a wine’s taste, as well. For example, Spanish Tempranillos are often considered extremely earth red wines, with flavor notes of cedar, dill, oregano and limestone common in this varietal.

Enology is the study of wine and winemaking. It is also known as oenology depending on what country you’re in. The field delves into a myriad of scientific and horticultural topics, including plant physiology, microbiology, pasteurization, filtration, soil management and more.

Finish specifies the flavors, weight and texture that remains after swallowing wine. Common sensations associated with wine finishes include oily, crisp, light, aggressive, blunt and astringent, among others.

A wine’s finish also includes how long those flavors and textures last. Long finishes — meaning a wine that lingers in your mouth before fading away — tends to signify a higher quality bottle or release. Shorter, less flavorful finishes can be due to the nature of the varietal but are traditionally associated with less mature or reputable wines.

Lees are a type of particle sediment that collects in wine barrels and tanks during wine fermentation. They include sediments such as yeast cells, seed scraps, grape pulp, vine matter and other plant materials added to the fermentation vessel and contribute — though not always successfully — to a release’s full taste, aroma and bouquet palate.

Overall, there are two kinds of lees winemakers address — gross and fine lees. Gross lees are larger particles that tend to settle at the bottle of a barrel or tank and are removed fairly quickly after fermentation. Fine lees, however, can mix and linger with the wine’s contents for longer. It’s these fine lees that wine producers will choose to remove more gradually.

When a wine has been positively influenced by fine lees, it is referred to as “leesy,” signifying the rich and often complex complementary notes created by “resting on its lees.” Many white wines are purposefully kept on their lees to add depth and body to their naturally fruity flavors.

Malolactic fermentation is a common secondary fermentation technique across many wine types.

To understand malolactic fermentation, though, you must first understand malic acid. Malic acid is one of the three primary acids found in grapes and many other fruits. This acid type contributes much of the tart, sour tang found almost universally in wines. This tang can be coaxed into differing expressions depending on fermentation timelines, barrel or tank type, sugar levels, additives and more used on the wine.

Malolactic fermentation is one such technique used to alter malic acid. Specifically, it changes the tart-forward notes into smoother, tamer and more lactic ones. This gives wines which have undergone malolactic fermentation their characteristic “creamy” or “buttery” flavors, ultimately lessening their overall acidic bite. Common wines that undergo malolactic fermentation include chardonnays, though reds like cabernet sauvignon and even merlot are no stranger to it.

Mouthfeel describes the sensation of wine on your tongue and overall palate. It is one of the most common vocab words you’ll hear during wine tastings as well as in formal wine reviews and publications.

Authors employ the wine term mouthfeel right before listing off its associated tactile adjective. Popular mouthfeel descriptors include words such as velvety, prickly, oily, waxy, rough, coarse, chewy, lean, juicy and many, many more.

You’re probably most familiar with the saying “on the nose” when wine tasting. On the nose, or the much shorter “nose,” simply refers to all the smells, bouquets and aromas associated with a glass of wine while drinking.

Remember, there is a technical difference between a wine’s “aroma” and a wine’s “bouquet.”
• Aroma are the smells typically associated with an entire grape varietal. It’s broader and primary.
• Bouquets are the smells associated with one specific bottle of wine. It’s more unique and subjective.
• Nose includes all the aromas and bouquets together — that is, the wine’s entire olfactory profile.

Oak aging is one of the most popular and prominent fermentation techniques for red and white wines.

As its name suggests, oak aging is when winemakers ferment their wines in oak barrels. The most popular oak sourced for wine barrels tends to come from France or the United States, though distinct niche or craft oak barrels do exist in other wine regions.

Oak aged, therefore, is a wine tasting term employed when picking up on the flavors and smells contributed by oak barrels. These flavors and smells tend to highlight warming notes such as vanilla, cinnamon, clove, coconut, cream, mocha, chocolate and caramel but can include some green flavors as well, such as dill, cedar, pine, leather and smoke.

Sommeliers are trained and certified wine professionals. They’re most commonly employed at fine-dining restaurants, hotels, resorts and similar hospitality institutions, where they lend knowledge and expertise on wine tastings, meal pairings, staff training and education for all things wine.

Becoming a professional sommelier is no easy task. There are four official levels, or tiered certificate programs, you must graduate to reach the highest level in the practitioner field, master sommelier. Many can take years to complete. Additional courses and certificates are also required to turn around and teach fellow sommeliers. There are also novice or enthusiast courses, aimed at regular folks like us wishing to elevate their general wine knowledge, identification and tasting skills.

Structure is a common though broad wine vocab word used to assess a wine’s overall profile. More specifically, it begins identifying the major components or characteristics of a wine, including its harmony between fruit, flower and herbaceous flavors, acidity levels, tannin amounts, alcohol count and overall body.

Wines with “good” structure are those balancing these qualities to achieve a more dynamic overall drinking experience. This doesn’t mean they have to contain all these characteristics, though. For example, good-structured red zinfandel can be fruit-forward, flowery and highly acidic yet can carry little to no trace of tannins and hold a delicate body.

Overall, structure refers to the building blocks of wine that help divide well-made, complex and enjoyable glasses from those with less dimension and care.

Sweet is one of the key tasting characteristics of wine. Wines are often discussed on a scale of sweet to dry, with sweet wines carrying stronger notes of sugar and fruit in taste, aroma and bouquet.

Tannins are plant-based compounds that create that dry, tongue-clicking and often puckering sensations when drinking wine.

Tannins are ubiquitous to most plants. The tannin types found in wine grapes, however, are the essential ingredient behind what makes wines feel and taste dry. While all wine types have tannins, classically dry varietals such as Nebbiolo, syrah, Monastrell, malbec and cabernet sauvignon contain some of the highest and most pronounced tannins, which contribute to their notoriously bold and chewy profiles.

Terroir is a fancy little French term used to express the unique features of a wine from a specific vineyard. Terroirs are influenced by many factors, such as the vineyard’s rainfall amount, topography, sun exposure, soil composition, planting and harvesting techniques, barrel or tank fermentation process and many, many more.

Varietal is a crucial wine term and a staple in your wine vocabulary. It refers to the specific type of grape used to make a specific kind of wine.

While there are technically thousands of wine grape varietals, just 13 represent over a third of all vine plantings around the world. Some of the most-planted grape varietals include cabernet sauvignon, merlot, Tempranillo, Airén, chardonnay, syrah and pinot noir.

Vintage refers to the year a wine was bottled, meaning it has completed its barrel or tank fermentation stage and is ready for market. Vintage can also refer to the yield of a grape varietal harvested during one season, with some vintages more prized than others for their overall quality.

Vitis vinifera is the scientific species name for grapes that are made into wine, compared to grape eaten fresh or dried into raisins.

Pair Your New Wine Vocabulary With Real Life Wines

Whether you’re broadening your horizons or seeking an old favorite, Marketview Liquor has the red, white, sparkling and rosé wines to match any palate — and have you feeling like a sommelier.

Explore our online wine catalog today. You can order online and have your wines shipped right to your door, or reserve your bottles for when you’re ready to stop in.Nearly 90% of American wines are produced in California.

You read that right. A premiere New World wine appellation, or region, California is the fourth-largest winemaking district in the world. Each year, it seals over 200 million cases of wine and generates a whopping $32 billion industry for the state. Not bad for some humble vines.

We’re touring the state’s top wine varietals today, exploring the essential list of Californian red and white wines. We’ll also consider what Californian subregions are best for each varietal’s production. Grab your corkscrew and let’s get started.

What Makes the Best California Wines?

The Golden State’s climate conditions are its secret to producing both the quality and quantity of wine grape types it does.

Generally speaking, there are three primary wine-growing regions in California:
• North Coast: California’s North and North Central Coasts are home to some of the most storied wine regions in the world, including Napa and Sonoma County. The North Coast also contains Mendocino County and Lake County, two other areas revered for their red and white wine vineyards.
• Central Coast: Nestled between Point Mugu and picturesque Monterey Bay, California’s Central Coast consists of Santa Clara County, Livermore County, San Benito and more. This region has seen explosive growth in wine production over the past two decades and currently produces some of the trendiest Californian wines.
• South Central Coast: The dryest and warmest of California’s appellations, the South Central Coast includes wine regions like San Luis Obispo County and Santa Barbara County situated near beautiful Pacific coastlines.

Each of these three regions maintains slight variations in geography, topography and climate. These variations contribute to different wine varietals growing more favorably in one region over another. However, California’s wine-growing profile as a whole is often compared to the Mediterranean — namely for their parallels in climate, soil and growing-season capabilities.
• Weather: California’s weather is temperate. Its summers tend to be dry and warm with little humidity, followed by cooler yet comfortable winter temperatures and modest levels of rainfall. Freezing temperatures are rare, even amidst the more mountainous regions of the North Coast.
• Terrain: California’s topography is characterized by rolling golden hills, mountainside slopes and careening valleys in the North and Central Coasts. However, California’s terrain begins to flatten as you travel south, particularly once you get to the South Central Coast subregion.
• Soil: California soil is a distinct mix of volcanic-mineral infused red and white clay as well as healthy traces of sandstone. The farther south a vineyard, the more clay-like soil. While the vast majority of grape varietals thrive in dryer soil types, Southern Californian winemakers may choose to install man-made drainage systems in their fields to nurture wine grapes’ preferred loamy, well-drained overall soil conditions.
• Growing season: Northern California’s cooler temperatures tend to produce lower overall yields compared to their warmer, southern vineyards. However, cool-climate grapes stay on the vine longer, creating sweeter, less acidic and tannin-heavy wines as a result.
• Harvesting practices: Nearly a quarter of Californian vineyards are grown using organic and “biodynamic” farming practices. Both organic and biodynamic wines adhere to unique quality and sustainability tenets, particularly as California faces mounting concerns over water consumption. In that same spirit of sustainability, several prominent Californian vineyards — particularly in the South-Central Coast subregion — have committed to a growing technique known as dry farming.

Together, these characteristics create California wine’s terroir — the complete set of environmental, growing and handling conditions that generate a varietal’s signature taste.

Now that you’re familiar with California’s wine-growing profile, regions and conditions, we can move on to main act — California’s top list of white wines.

Chardonnay is the most-planted varietal in all of California. It claims over 95,000 acres of California vineyards alone and is grown in all three major wine-growing subregions.

Chardonnay’s popularity is especially impressive when considering California grows over 110 total types of wine grapes. A chardonnay varietal tends to find its best footing in the North and Central Coasts, though, where growers have more time to let the grapes stay on the vine. This patience tends to reward Californian chardonnay drinkers with a more refined balance of sweetness and acidity and a medium-full mouthfeel.

Californian chardonnays are on the sweeter side and can be found in two types — oaked and unoaked. Oaked chardonnays have those classically “creamy” notes and tend to be sourced in warmer-climate regions. Unoaked chardonnays will still be smooth and silky yet are leaner than their oak-aged cousins, with more pronounced fruit flavors.

Riesling is a quintessentially light, tart and diverse type of varietal next on the list of California white wines.

With only 4,000 acres dedicated to riesling grapes, it’s a rarer wine commodity — but one you shouldn’t pass up the opportunity to try. This is often because California rieslings must frequently compete with the more familiar American riesling producers to their north, in regions like Washington State and Oregon.

Stick with Californian rieslings from the Central Coast, if possible. The cooler, milder temperatures in places like Monterey and Merced Counties allow these grapes to thrive, rounding out their naturally high acidity with more complex citrus and floral notes. All of these flavors should be apparent when tasting this type of California white.

Serve your Californian riesling cold. Unlike many other wine types, a glass of riesling tastes best in the 37 to 47°F temperature range — perfect for a balmy spring or summer dinner party or a picnic at the beach.

Sauvignon blanc comprises roughly 15,000 acres of California’s vineyards. The dry, mellow wine is a popular choice to accompany meals as well as for an evening nightcap, with each sip delivering Sauvignon Blanc’s signature light, herbaceous and zippy profile.

Sauvignon blancs are also one of the dryest white wine types on the list. You’ll find the vast majority of them sourced from the Northern and Central Coasts, since these two region’s climates maintain the cooler temperatures necessary for grapes to form their structured acidity. Yet don’t worry, Sauvignon Blanc’s tart taste is softened by a medium to medium-low body, particularly those grown in California.

Grab a bottle or two from a North Coast Sauvignon Blanc winemaker as well as a Central Coast winery. Compare the tasting notes from each. Some of the most renowned Californian Sauvignons hail from none other than storied Napa and Sonoma Valley, yet the centrally located Lodi Valley and more southern San Louis Obispo County produce an impressive array of this off-dry white varietal. Many brands may even contain the label “Fumé Blanc,” a name given only to American-made Sauvignon Blancs that have been age oaked to balance its vegetal flavors.

A journey through California’s white wines would be incomplete without Semillons.

The Bordeaux-born, world-wide grown white varietal can be found in hot and warm climates alike. This allows many California growers to experiment with its production, resulting in an impressive variety of Californian Semillon colors, tastes and even textures.

You can often identify a Semillon by its “mouth feel,” or the sensations it produces in your mouth as you drink. Compared to other white wines, Semillons are known for their residue-like, almost waxy heaviness that coats the tongue. Sips linger in the mouth with lighter, fruiter notes before revealing more complex flavors coaxed by its winemaker.

Overall, Semillon is a delicate yet structured wine. Californian Semillons lean medium-bodied, medium-acidity and creamier in overall taste and texture. They’ll carry riper, even tropical fruit notes rounded out with caramel finishes, most often due to Californian Semillon producers oaking their grapes.

The finished product is something between those famous Californian Chardonnays and Sauvignon Blancs, both dry yet buttery, smooth yet refreshingly light.

Viogniers are one of the fastest-growing white wine plantings in California. While still a niche varietal, their resurgence is thanks to a booming wine market both locally and nationally as well as the varietal’s compatibility when grown alongside other vine types. Yet Viogniers are still vastly underrated at the dinner tables of most Americans, passed over for more familiar white wine brands and names.

Viogniers have a few key distinctions. First, their grapes’ skins grow on the thinner side. This makes them temperamental to heat and is a predominant reason California viognier is produced in the hillier vineyards of the North Coast subregion. Search far enough and you may even stumble across a Central Coast viognier. Producers in this subregion, though, tend to mix their viogniers with one or two other varietals to produce a sweeter, more commercially marketable blend — think Chenins, Marsannes and even sweet chardonnays.

Viogniers also take well to aging techniques. Some of the best California viognier growers go so far as to age theirs in imported French oak barrels to create truly delicate yet structured wines. Underripened viogniers will taste greener and less sugary than these appropriately aged versions, imported oak barrels or not.

Zinfandel is to California what Riesling is to Germany or Sauvignon Blanc is to New Zealand. In other words, it’s the wine type that helped put the region on the map — and continues to do so, bigger and better than ever.

But don’t let the name fool you. California’s white zinfandels are actually pink — and a wide variety of shades of pink, at that. Since Zinfandel grapes enjoy hot temperatures and dryer climates, you’ll find their vines planted across the state’s three winemaking regions.

These higher temperatures trigger grapes to produce and then hold more sugar, creating sweeter, bolder zinfandels like those sourced from Lodi County. Similarly, zinfandels produced in the North Coast — particularly Dry Creek Valley and Russian River Valley in Sonoma as well as Amador Valley — benefit from dry, warm days but also cooler nights. North Coast California white zinfandels will, therefore, lean slightly more acidic, with just enough pop to offset the sugary notes.

For the best California white zinfandels, we recommend seeking high-elevation wineries. Rolling topography helps generate that hot day/warm night dynamic duo that’ll give you the luxurious sweetness so characteristic of zinfandels as well as that sharp, acidic uptick.

Next on our guide to California wines? You guessed it — California reds.

The Golden State is renowned for its red wine varietals, most notably the following types grown across all three Californian subregions.

The reigning monarch of California red wine, no list of the region is complete without kicking off with cabs.

Cabernet sauvignon is grown across more than 90,000 acres in the state. You’ll find the highest concentrations of cabernet sauvignon vines in Northern California though, in the peripheral benchlands of Sonoma Valley, the Santa Cruz Mountains and — most famously — Napa Valley.

Benchlands is a wine term that refers to when a vineyard sits just at the base of a mountain. This location means its soil tends to be more gravelly and mineral — the perfect combination for naturally occurring drainage. Cabernet sauvignons need porous soil for the varietal’s signature high tannins to flourish, producing that dry, robust and full-bodied red wine type so revered worldwide.

Aim for cabernet sauvignons from the North Coast, though you’ll also enjoy bottles sourced from other Californian regions. Serve cabernet sauvignons at room temperature, and decant the bottle a minimum of one hour before serving. The bold flavors and strong, savory finish make California cabernet sauvignons an excellent pairing for grilled foods, red sauces, red meats and dishes starring mushrooms or peppers.

We’re keeping up the cabernets with our next featured California red wine — the cabernet franc.

Cabernet francs maintain modest plantings. Hovering just over 1,000 acres, you’ll find the majority of this varietal grown in California’s North and Central regions. Winemakers in these areas can play around with these more flexible grapes varietals, particularly when it comes to ripening techniques.

Per its typical New World flavor profile, California cabernet francs are more likely to fall on the fruitier and lush side. Yet they still maintain peppery and even pleasant spice notes. Cabernet francs benefit from California’s clay-infused soils, which allow grapes to produce more tannins. The clay soil’s minerality also encourages longer vine ripening, resulting in increased sugars right there with the tannins.

This unique geographic fingerprint makes California cabernet francs distinct around the world. It’s a smart choice when catering to a crowd as well, with its sweet and savory balance sure to satisfy both sides of wine preferences.

Merlot is the fourth most-produced red wine varietal in California. With over 5,000 acres planted in Napa Valley alone — 44,000 acres total — merlots are big, bold powerhouses of flavor packed into a glass.

This red wine type is beloved for encompassing what a “good” red wine should be — deep, medium-bodied and pleasantly acidic, with above-average tannin levels that fade softly from the roof of your mouth and tongue. Merlots are also notoriously dry. Those grown and produced in California are no different, though the dryness gets offset by juicy fruit accents that lift and brighten merlot. This fruit-finishing punch positions California merlots as a more approachable choice for those who don’t want a red wine quite as dense and herbaceousness as cabernet sauvignon.

North Coast merlots remain the most prized of the pack. Look out for Napa Valley and San Joaquin-grown blends in particular, though Sonoma, San Luis Obispo and Monterey counties maintain some seriously respectable merlot makers as well.

California is one of the world’s leading producers of petite sirah. In fact, outside of its French homeland, few other countries plant petite sirah vines to any real acreage significance, making California a premier source for this red wine varietal.

Petite sirah tends to elicit a strong response. Wine drinkers either love or hate its intensity, characterized by its full body, high acidity, high tannins and a lingering, dancing mouthfeel. This combination tends to result in a puckering sensation as the tongue works through the wine. It’s also the reason Californian petite sirahs make a great pairing for creamy or high-umami dishes, where the fat helps blanket petite sirah’s striking taste without overpowering it.

Opt for Lodi and nearby central valley bottles when foraying into petite sirahs. Another pro tip? Make sure to decant your petite sirah a minimum of one to two hours before drinking. The wine’s high tannin count needs a little space to breathe for you to pick up its full range of tart and fruit notes.

The silky pinot noir is a perennial favorite in both American and international wine markets. So popular, in fact, it’s the world’s best-selling red wine varietal, with California more than doubling its pinot noir plantings since 2004.

Pinot noir grapes are also renowned for their tricky growing conditions. Their uniquely thin skins make them susceptible to both hot and cold temperatures — though they prefer cooler climates and soils, particularly ones with a moderate clay composition.

Growers in northern and central California are therefore in luck. Their climates, soils and seasons are an intuitive match for growing the often-fickle pinot noir grape. Central and North Coast producers will also oak age many of their pinot noirs, which lengthens the wine’s already silky finish. The result is a polished, medium-bodied type of red wine with deep, jam-like flavors and an agreeably subtle aftertaste.

Santa Maria Valley wineries within greater Santa Barbara produce some of the most renowned New World pinot noirs. Other great regions in California for pinot noir include the Russian River Valley, Monterey’s Santa Lucia Highlands, San Pablo Bay area and, of course, Sonoma Valley.

Try not to be confused with the petite sirahs already profiled on this list of California wines. Syrahs are a distinct varietal of their own, one that actually does well in the warmer climates of South Central California.

Muddling the distinction, though, is the fact that syrahs often look and taste like a lighter petite sirah. This red wine type has a notably heavy body and a near-black, opaque pour. New World syrahs, like those from California, are discernably fruiter than their Old World ancestors — but not sweet. Expect tart fruit notes to hit your tongue earlier in your sip, then soften into earthier flavors with a medium-heavy mouthfeel.

Some of California’s best syrahs come from south-central Santa Barbara, specifically the Ballard Valley and Los Alamos. Serve syrah room temperature, decanted for up to an hour before serving.

Then get them shipped right to your door!

Marketview Liquor has one of the most extensive collections of Californian red and white wines available online for direct shipping at any price point. Browse our cellars, and place an online delivery order today.Back to school time is hectic. Everyone is frantically rushing around, trying to capture the last free moments of summer before fall gets into full gear. During such a busy period, most households turn into Grand Central Station. To stop the craziness in its tracks, make sure to kick back with some back to school wine.

Shopping for back to school time wine involves finding the perfect picks to drink now and later. Remember that when September hits, the holidays are not far away. Order several bottles or cases online from Marketview Liquor to ensure you have all the wines you need to cover back to school until those ramped-up holiday festivities.

The kids are doing homework. The dusk is settling in. Now may be the ideal moment to relax with a bottle of sparkling rose.

Sparkling roses are more than just pink drinks. They embody the notion that every day can be a little celebration. Plus, they can stand on their own flavors or accompany everything from a light August dinnertime meal to a smorgasbord of nighttime snacks. If you’re new to the idea of sipping sparkling roses in the evening, pick a few bottles to try. You never know which ones may become your all-time favorite go-to sparkling wines.

Ah, the richness of a Pinot Noir. As a treat to the senses, Pinot Noir is the perfect mini-indulgence after a zany morning or afternoon preparing for the back to school rush.

One of the delicious aspects of Pinot Noir is that it does not have to be relegated to the dinner table and a “proper” meal. Many parents like to enjoy a glass of full-bodied, rich Pinot Noir as a nightly ritual. Pinot Noir varieties come from all over the world, so use this opportunity to explore global flavors right from the comfort of your own backyard, end-of-season pool party or favorite recliner.

Whether you call it Shiraz or Syrah, you can bet your dollars that this is one unforgettable wine. If you want to punctuate any moment, pour out a glass of Shiraz.

A huge advantage that comes with Syrah or Shiraz wines is their depth. Expect more complexity on your tongue than you will find in lighter back to school wine choices. You might even taste a note or two of chocolate. In fact, Syrah can pair very well with desserts. Opening a few of your sophisticated dark chocolate truffles to enjoy after the kids fall into bed, exhausted after their first days back in the classroom? Shiraz makes a delightful wine pairing to bring out the high levels of cacao without being overly cloying.

Use Back to School as a Reason for Wine

You certainly do not need a reason to order wine online, but if you are looking for an excuse to try a new bottle of Chardonnay or Rose wine, back to school is a great fit. Try back to school wines for moms, dads, grandparents and adult neighbors. Remember to save a few from the cases you purchase for later-in-the-year gifts.A new baby. An engagement or a wedding. A loved one landing that dream job or buying their first home. There are many small and large moments to celebrate in life, and a wine congratulations gift is a wonderful way to celebrate with loved ones both near and far away.

Marketview Liquor has a wide selection of white, red, sparkling and other wines from different regions to help you put together the perfect congratulations wine gifts. You can choose different grapes or the vintage you want to create a custom gift or congratulations wine gift box.

Choosing a congratulations champagne gift or wine begins with deciding what’s appropriate. A bottle of champagne is a traditional option. This type of wine is a champagne only when it’s grown in the Champagne region of France. To be true champagne, only Champagne grapes (pinot noir, chardonnay and pinot meunier) can be used, and producers must follow a specific way of making the champagne.

Champagne is bubbly and light as well as dry. It’s an especially good choice for new boats and houses. Traditionally, bottles of champagne have been broken to launch a new boat. Champagne is also associated with celebrating weddings, engagements and other big events.

You’ll have different choices when you decide to send congratulations champagne. Champagne Blanc de Blancs is a delicate taste and is made from white cépage (Chardonnay) grapes. Champagne Brut is dry and makes for a good choice for meals. Champagne-Demi Sec is not as dry and is ideal when paired with a dessert. Champagne Rosé has a pink shade and is pleasant even for some who do not like the drier varieties.

There are many ways to send congratulations champagne. You can simply present a beautiful bottle or put together a congratulations champagne gift basket with a card, champagne flutes and an ice bucket.

While a congratulations champagne bottle is a traditional way to celebrate, it’s certainly not the only way to commemorate a big event. If the person you’re buying for prefers white or red, you can explore other options. Cabernet Sauvignon is a very drinkable red wine that pairs with many meals and is a classic choice. There’s nothing better than celebrating a new home or a new job than a classic red, which can be enjoyed over a celebration dinner.

You might also want to choose a wine based on what’s being celebrated. If you’re congratulating someone on a marriage, consider getting a wine from the area their wife or husband comes from. If a friend is moving to California, why not give them a taste of their new home with a bottle of California wine?

Or, purchase a vintage from this year so that they have a memory of the year their life changed. For example, if a friend is having a baby, you can buy a case from the year the baby is born. The parents can keep the bottles so they have a vintage as old as the new addition to the family. If you go this route, choose something like a Bordeaux, which will age well.

You can also put together congratulations wine gift baskets that show you care. Celebrate a new job with a name plate and a bottle of wine or a wedding with a good wine and a wedding gift.

Marketview Liquor has a vast selection of red, white, sparkling and other wines from various regions to help you put together the perfect congratulations wine gift.

Champagne is light, bubbly, dry and a perfect congratulations wine for an occasion like a house-warming party. Traditionally, champagne bottles have been broken to launch a new boat. This wine is also associated with celebrating engagements, weddings, promotions, graduations and other significant events.

There are many ways to gift family, friends or coworkers with a celebratory bottle of champagne to celebrate life’s milestones. You can present the bottle in all its glory or put together a congratulations champagne gift basket with an ice bucket, champagne flutes or a card.

The best congratulations champagne gifts come in many forms. Choose from sweeter champagnes that pair well with desserts or brut varieties to accompany meals. Here is our guide to determine if sparkling wine is sweet or dry:
• For dry champagne: The label should say “brut.”
• For dry champagne that’s slightly sweet: Look for “extra sec” or “extra dry” on the label.
• For sweet champagne: Opt for a white wine like moscato that has a softer bubbly quality.

Shop our wine congratulations gifts today to celebrate with loved ones.

Shop The Best Wines To Give As Congratulations GiftsWhen you’re full of gratitude toward someone, a thank you wine is a thoughtful way to express your appreciation. Not only is wine one of the most loved drinks, but it’s highly versatile. It can be enjoyed alone, with dinner or even in cooking. You can even personalize wine thank you gifts by choosing just the right bottle to say “thanks” in any language.

Marketview Liquor has a selection of white, red, rose and sparkling wines you can give to friends, family and business associates when they go out of their way for you.

Send Wine as a Thank You Gift

The best wine to give as a thank you gift depends on the person you’re presenting a gift to. Someone who knows about wine may appreciate a high-end wine they may hesitate in getting for themselves. A person who’s new to wine may appreciate a Riesling, which pairs well with almost anything and stands well on its own.

Just about anyone can appreciate something new. While many people have tried French wine or United States wines, what about a Japanese wine? These plum wines are unique and often beautifully packaged. While many people have heard of a Burgundy wine, how about a Gewurztraminer? This sweet wine can be appreciated by wine connoisseurs and those who are just developing their palette.

Gifting something a little different is a welcome way to say thank you because some people may usually stick to tried-and-true favorites. By offering something new, you may be helping someone find a new favorite!

Another way to choose a white or red wine thank you gift is to consider location. Is the person you’re gifting the bottle to from Oregon or Chile? Consider choosing a thank you bottle of wine from that person’s home country or home state, and they’re sure to feel appreciated. Or consider sending them a bottle from a location they often talk about or travel to.

You can also offer a vintage from a special year. If the thank you is somehow related to last year, get them a bottle from that year and include a personal tag explaining how the recipient’s actions made the year better for you. This kind of thoughtful gesture can transform a bottle into something truly meaningful.

If you don’t know much about wine, Marketview Liquor has you covered. With Mike’s Picks, you can get recommendations from our owner, Mike, who has more than 45 years of experience in wine. You can also check out our videos to learn more about wines and to get suggestions. We offer wines in every price range, so you can always choose an appropriate gift.

Still stumped? Buy more than one wine or choose a wine gift set. Put together your own thank you wine gift baskets with snacks and wine or wine and gift certificates. You can curate an entire experience to show your appreciation this way.

In case you’re looking for a bottle of wine as a thank you gift, we’ve put together a few of our favorite suggestions:
• La Marca Prosecco: Are you thanking a friend for dogsitting or watching your house while you went on a trip? La Marca Prosecco is an Italian classic that blends the flavors of baked apple, sour lemon and grapefruit together into one refreshing drink. It’s the perfect thank you wine.
• Josh Cellars Cabernet Sauvignon: A red wine thank you gift pairs well with a steak or another red-meat dinner. Invite your wine bottle recipient over and have two bottles of Josh Cellars Cabernet Sauvignon on hand. Use one for your gift and let the aromas of ripe fruit, cedar, cinnamon and flowers from the other perfectly accompany your dinner.
• Primo Amore Moscato: Chill this sweet Primo Amore Moscato and include it in a thank you wine gift basket for someone special. Made in the south of Italy, this white wine pairs well with desserts and delivers a crisp and refreshing taste.

Browse the thank you wine gifts available at Marketview Liquor to find great bottles in every price range. Buying a beautiful bottle of wine is a great way to show your gratitude without saying a word.

Shop The Best Wines To Give As Thank You GiftsThere is no better way to celebrate the passage of time than with wine, a birthday and gifts. If someone special in your life is having a birthday, wine will make an excellent gift. Since wine ages, a birthday wine bottle is a thoughtful way to remind someone that things do get better with time. It’s also possible to personalize wine gifts for her birthday or his special day and to pick out a white or red to perfectly capture the moment.

Marketview Liquor has a wide selection of wines from all over the world. Whether you want a 21st birthday champagne bottle for your best friend or a New Zealand bottle of white wine for your co-worker who loves Lord of the Rings, our selection will let you gift with confidence.

Everyone has a different taste in wine. For someone who drinks regularly, consider looking for recommendations. For someone who is new to wine or has just turned 21, consider a champagne, sparkling wine or easy-to-drink option, which is popular with everyone. Wine is a truly universal gift that can be enjoyed for many birthdays.

Whether you’re seeking wine birthday gifts for him, her, a colleague or someone else, consider the following ideas:
• Get professional picks: Choosing wine for a birthday gift does not have to be daunting, even if you’re not an expert. Mike, our owner, uses his more than 45 years of wine experience to bring you recommendations through Mike’s Picks. It’s an easy way to make sure you find the best birthday wine for everyone.
• Include special details: Finding the best wine for a birthday gift is only the first step. Attach a special tag or wrap up the bottle in beautiful paper or a wooden box for a photo-worthy presentation.
• Buy a case: Rely on birthday wine delivery from Marketview Liquor to easily get multiple bottles to your door without heavy lifting. With a whole case, you can get a friend or loved one to enjoy a bottle a year to see how the wine changes over time. Instead of one birthday gift, they’ll get a gift every year and think of your thoughtful gesture.
• Say it with a birthday wine basket: Don’t know whether your recipient likes white or red? Get a wine set or a few bottles. You can create your own birthday wine gift baskets with a few snacks and a special card.
• For a splurge, choose a vintage from the year the person was born: Buy a vintage from the year the recipient turned 21. Or, buy a whole case so you can toast each year’s passing.

Here are some of our top picks for that perfect birthday wine bottle:
• Wycliff Brut Rose Champagne: Is someone special celebrating a milestone birthday? The tasty flavors of raspberries, strawberries and pear in Wycliff Brut Rose give it a light body with a crisp finish. Pop this bottle of champagne for someone’s 21st, 30th or even 80th birthday.
• Montevina Terra D’oro Zinfandel Port: A heavier port is the perfect drink to enjoy with some birthday cake at the end of the night. The Montevina Terra D’oro Zinfandel is rich and sweet, with flavors of blackberry jam, cassis and dark chocolate.
• Canyon Road Merlot: A classic merlot is the perfect crowd-pleasing wine birthday gift. Break out the Canyon Road Merlot during dinner or when you get home later. The slight oak and vanilla tones along with plum and black cherry aromas make this wine an approachable choice for everyone.

Make getting older a time to celebrate for family and friends! Shop birthday wine gifts at Marketview Liquor for our terrific selection and great prices. You’ll find gift-worthy bottles in every price category, so you can celebrate everyone’s birthday with a great bottle.

Shop The Best Wines To Give As Birthday GiftsYour complete guide to eating and drinking your way around a Rochester summer is here.

Rochester, N.Y., and its surrounding areas are brimming with festive foodie events during the warm summer months. Anyone is bound to find a festival piquing their curiosity and tickling their tastebuds — and maybe worthy of loosening a belt a notch or two.

Mark your calendar with these upcoming Rochester food and beverage summer festivals. We’ll see you there!

This month is packed with seasonal celebrations highlighting everything from local, farm-to-table fares to first-come, first-served international treats. Rochester locals and those passing through are sure to find more than a few food events to fill their June calendars.

Rock the Gates is a must-attend summer bash hosted annually at 12 Gates Brewing Company, located in nearby Williamsville, N.Y.

True to its name, the day-long event marries all things rock with all things beer. Handcrafted favorites and seasonally available microbrews meet some of Monroe County’s finest rock tribute bands, including past performers playing AC/DC, Tom Petty, Pearl Jam and more.

VIP tickets receive specialty access to 12 Gates’ lineup of beer releases, including favorite seasonal brews like:

Learn more and get VIP event ticket information.

When: Multiple summer dates beginning the first week of June

Four local breweries co-hosting one special summer extravaganza? That’s what treats guests during the June Brew Cruise, a day-long, multi-stop summer tour of four renowned area breweries — and the perfect way to spend a day with friends during the summer.

The Saturday of Brews Cruise includes stops at multiple Rochester-area and Monroe county breweries. Past cruises featured:

Past tours have started at Three Heads Brewing. Check Three Heads Brewery’s events page for future tour dates and times.

Enjoy a day dedicated to one of the crown culinary jewels of Eastern Europe — the pierogi.

Area chefs will be serving up their interpretations of this famous dumpling through sweet, savory and surprising dishes, all washed down by local beer and wine vendors.

Each year, the Buffalo Pints + Pierogi Fest also features:

See ticket packages and get the full list of food, beverage and artisan vendors from the city of Buffalo’s official events page.

When: Early June, similar events hosted later in summer

Don’t miss out on one of western New York’s largest heritage events with this all-in-one evening dedicated to Spanish cuisine.

Hosted annually by Tapas 177 restaurant in Rochester, festival attendees work their way across food and drinks arranged according to Spanish regions. The culinary tour will provide samplings of both classic Spanish dishes as well as lesser-known regional treats across four distinct Spanish provinces — Malaga, Pamplona, Bunol and Barcelona. Guests are also served Iberian-inspired cocktails prepped exclusively for the festival.

View the full lineup of Tapas 177’s summer events, then get in the spirit by sampling a bottle of Rioja, one of Spain’s most acclaimed wine varietals.

Rochester Cocktail Revival is a week-long soiree into all things mixed, shaken, blended and stirred.

This one-of-a-kind summer event brings you closer to the art and science of craft cocktails than ever before. It’s also one of New York State’s only festivals dedicated to cocktail mixology, with Rochester serving as a premier destination for craft mixed beverages and top-tier mixologist talent.

With over 20 cocktail bars and venues participating in past years, future Rochester Cocktail Revival’s lineup doesn’t show any signs of slowing down. Attendees experience:

See more about the Rochester Cocktail Revival lineup, or check out specific RCR events with individually sold tickets.

When: During the annual Rochester Cocktail Revival (RCR) Festival, early to mid June

Spectacular is in the name, and spectacular is what guests can expect in one of the Rochester Cocktail Revival’s opening summer events.

Attendees have tasting access to over 40 spirits from local, state and national distillers, plus craft cocktail samples and full drinks made to highlight them. Solo event tickets include up to 16 free spirit samples, plus additional samples and beverages available for order at cash bars.

Learn more about the Spirit Tasting Spectacular plus other individual festival events that are part of the annual Rochester Cocktail Revival.

When: Amidst late spring oyster season, late May to early June

New York State’s great lake and coastal shores are no stranger to shellfishing — and neither are its neighbors to the north.

Making it out to Niagara Falls’ annual Oyster Fest is worth the trek to experience the expert oyster shucking competition alone. Enjoy heaps of fresh-shucked oysters, explore local wineries, spirits and craft brewery and taste additional seafood vendors, plus bring the whole family for themed arts, crafts, musical entertainment, games and more.

Admission is free for children 10 and under. Learn more about Oyster Fest Niagara, then prep for your Canadian adventure with a bottle of premium Canadian whiskey, great on the rocks for a balmy summer evening.

When: During the annual Rochester Cocktail Revival (RCR) Festival, early to mid June

The Bar Room Battle Royale is a signature event of the renowned annual Rochester Cocktail Revival festival.

Its name doesn’t mislead. Watch as some of the nation’s best mixologists square off in cocktail-making competitions — with only one claiming the title of supreme mixological master.

Find this year’s Battle Royale date and time on their website — it’s been known to sell out.

A day filled with cheese? Washed down with cold, crisp ciders? That’s what guests are in for at Cheese the Day, the Blue Toad Hard Cider’s seasonal food and cider-pairing event. We don’t think anyone leaves disappointed.

Try a hand-curated assortment of Blue Toad Hard Ciders always picked to complement the flavors of a range of locally sourced cheeses and cheese recipes. Both sweet and savory items are served, showcasing how cider beverages pair with this favorite charcuterie-board staple.

For tickets and more information, visit the Blue Toad Hard Cider NY’s event page.

Two classic cocktails get their day in the spotlight at the annual Rochester Martini & Mimosa Fest.

Enjoy as over six Rochester-area restaurants serve up their takes on the mimosa and the martini, the beloved beverage of brunch and dinner at local brasseries. The two provide a signature beverage-festival experience, with martinis’ silky, signature sips washed down with a mimosa’s light, sweet and sugary finish.

Tickets for this one tend to sell fast, with discounted group packages available for group rates.

When: Multiple dates and tour times beginning in June

The A-List Canal Crawl is not your typical bar hop. In fact, the event showcases far more than a few beverage samples at a handful of bars, instead giving guests exclusive access to the dining, shopping and entertainment venues that make up the heart downtown Pittsford.

Local guides host groups of up to 30 across pre-planned stops, with games, raffles and other entertainment at each location. Stops along the Crawl are diverse, allowing attendees to sample:
• And much more

Grab your friends and book a spot on a tour this summer.

When: Late June, similar food truck events occur later in the summer

This specialty craft food event puts a world of cuisine at your fingertips.

Ethnic food truck vendors from around western New York will be setting up shop at the International Institute of Buffalo, bringing their fryers, broilers, griddles and grills to present a feast of international proportions. Slotted food trucks include fare from the Middle East, Mediterranean regions, African cuisines and even The Great Aussie Bite celebrating food from down under.

Past general admission tickets have included two complimentary beverages of beer, soda or water.

July keeps the summer festivals sizzling in Rochester with a slate of food and drink events of its own.

When: Second weekend of July

The Finger Lakes Wine Festival is a must-experience event for any professed wine lover.

One of the largest wine celebrations in the state and in all of New England, Finger Lakes Wine Festival is dedicated to all things New York wine. Over 80 wineries and vendors set up shop and serve pours from their cellars, plus host cooking demonstrations, winemaking seminars, curated tastings, competitions and more.

In addition to the exploration of all things wine and winemaking, the annual Finger Lakes Wine Festival features:

Learn more about the annual Finger Lakes Wine Festival, then get in the spirit by exploring New York wine regions and types. Details on Rochester-area transportation packages to the festival are available, as well as information regarding both on and off-premise event lodging.

Learn the secrets of eating seasonally at this local Rochester festival gem, A Taste of Summer.

A Taste of Summer brings together over 10 area restaurants, breweries and wineries every year to showcase specialty dishes and drinks using only seasonal, local ingredients. Attendees enjoy food, beverages and nibbles prepped by renowned establishments like:
• The Hole in the Wall Restaurant & Lounge

Pre-sale tickets are typically available at discount rates. Tickets are used day-of in place of cash or credit to purchase dishes. The standard event rate is three tickets for one dish. See more details on the Perry Chalk Art Festival event lineup.

When: Inaugural event in mid July, other O.P.P. dates throughout the year

While you’re in a hop state of mind from June’s brewery festivities and parties, make your way to the Rising Storm Brewing Company over in Avon. The award-winning brewery is opening its doors to commemorate all the beer-brewing talent in the area with a festival completely dedicated to other breweries — that is, “other people’s pints.” Get the name now?

With over a dozen breweries on its yearly docket, the O.P.P. Festival is a one-stop night to soak in local craft beers. Taste beer flights and full pours, plus sample local food vendors while live musical entertainment plays on stage.

Get more information on Rising Storm Brewing Company’s summer events.

The annual Empire Brewfest is a homage to all things craft beer — and more than worthy of the pilgrimage to Syracuse.

After all, it has “Empire,” in the name for a reason. One of the largest brewery festivals in summer, Empire Brewfest hosts well over 200 breweries and brewery representatives offering everything from their classic pours to brand-new, limited edition summer brews.

Choose from several ticket packages. VIP tickets over the years have been upgraded to include amenities like:

Find the full lineup of Brewfest events, breweries, food vendors and more on their event page.

Cool-climate wine lovers rejoice, this summer festival is made for you!

The FLXcursion Grand Tasting is a traveling series bringing international cool-region wine producers to cities near you. Past Grand Tasting vendors hail from Oregon, Washington State and Michigan, plus Austria, Germany, Canada, Australia, New Zealand and more.

Taste classic to cutting-edge cool-region red and white varietals from a host of vineyards, hearing their origin stories told by the very people who cultivate the grapes. Information on standard and VIP tickets is available here.

Summer festivals are a prime time to get your cheese fix on, with few places better to do so than the annual Finger Lakes Cheese Festival.

Showcasing the area’s rich and diverse cheesemaking scene, this family-friendly event is a day-long celebration of all things dairy. Taste dozens of cheese varieties, snack on cheese dishes, watch live cooking demos and attend cheese-wine-beer-cider pairing sessions. The kids will have fun exploring the event venue’s creamery, taking hayride tours of the farm and playing cheese-themed games.

The Finger Lakes Cheese Festival has traditionally also showcased the best of local:

Order tickets on the official Finger Lakes Wine Country events calendar.

Many regions around the world have their version of the boil dinner. Here in Rochester and Monroe County, we like ours with fresh clams, mussels and lobster, served with summery sides of locally farmed potatoes, corn on the cob and steaming-hot biscuits just pulled from the oven and smothered in butter.

That’s precisely what you’ll find on the menu of Wild Brute Winery’s Low Country Boil, a festive evening for food connoisseurs looking for a taste of true New England summer cooking. Additional menu items include crab legs, smoked sausage and homemade seasonal desserts, all served hot and fresh like they would be in your own backyard.

Past meal tickets have included a complimentary glass of champagne. Contact Wild Brute Winery for ticket prices and group packages.

Rochester’s food and beverage festivals aren’t over yet. Cap off the summer with these foodie celebrations in and around Monroe County all throughout August.

When: Multiple Wednesdays throughout August and into fall

1833 Kitchen and Bar at the Aurora Inn serves up a unique, summer-long tasting series with one goal — showcase the diverse range of local wineries, breweries and distilleries that make up the thriving beverage scene here in western New York.

Best of all? Tastings are free — no tickets or advanced reservations required. Simply stop in on select Wednesdays throughout the summer months, sit down for the featured tasting, then enjoy live music, related food specials or a full dinner spread.

When: First or second weekend of August

Wine and cheese may be the perennial pairing, but don’t go kicking beer to the curb just yet. The Strathmore Beer & Cheese Festival proves sample after sample, vendor after vendor, just how much these two belong together.

Each year, the event explores dozens of artisan cheeses from local and national cheesemakers alike, alongside featured craft beers and ciders. Charcuterie plates and other cheese-inspired fares will also be available during this day-long fest.

All ticket packages contain various amounts of cheese, charcuterie and beverage samples. Find ticket package details and purchasing instructions on their event page.

When: Peak corn harvest season in Northeast NY, August through September

August is peak corn season in New York State. Long Cliff Vineyard & Winery embraces the harvest in style with their annual Old Fashion Corn Roast, a complete, appetizer-to-dessert ensemble dedicated to sweet corn and all that goes well with it.

Typical event tickets include three personalized wine samples, a full beverage of your choice and dinner that’s featured locally sourced fare such as:

Enjoy an upscale farm-to-table meal and sip local Finger Lakes wines while supporting the Smith Opera House, all during in this annual food-centered festive fundraiser hosted at the Smith Center for Performing Arts.

Silk and Tassel brings award-winning, distinguished chefs from western New York to prepare a multi-course, gourmet dinner using only seasonal and sustainable foods. Event proceeds go directly to the Smith Center for Performing Arts. Donors will sit at a long, communal table, sharing in food and conversation — all for a good cause.

See the chefs and vendors taking part in Silk and Tassel, then learn about the Smith Center for the Arts’ additional summer series.

There’s no better way to cap a summer of western New York food and wine festivals than attending the creme de la creme celebration of them all, the National Buffalo Wing Festival.

Consistently drawing 50,000 to 60,000 visitors a year, the two-day long homage to Buffalo’s famous fried chicken fare and is conveniently held only a few hours from Rochester. This packed festival is a must for every foodie to check off their bucket list, featuring:
• Other food and beverage-themed contests, prizes and drawings

VIP Party Deck tickets are typically available for a “Best Seat in the House” all-inclusive festival experience. All other general event tickets are available day-of at the gates, no pre-sale. Get all the details in their full festival guide.

Pro tip: Interested in bringing buffalo hot wing-wine pairings home? Stick with sweeter, low-alcohol wines like Gewürztraminers, Garnachas and zinfandels. Their juicy, bright but mellow flavors won’t fight against your plate of bold buffalo hot wings, letting you enjoy the nuances of each.

Bring Rochester’s Best Food and Drink Festivals to Your Home

Whether you want the right wine for a summer meal or a one-stop resource for wine and beverage happenings near and far, Marketview Liquor can help.

We house one of the area’s largest selections of local, national and international wines. Browse our wine catalog, then order online for quick and convenient home delivery. Or pick up your order in-store to also explore our wide selection of liquors.Independence Day is a prime opportunity to enjoy some great American wine. As the fourth-largest wine producer, California is responsible for over 80% of all wine made in the United States.

In honor of the full patriotic stars and stripes experience, we’ve put together a little bit of history along with a list of our favorite wines from other popular U.S. regions, including the Finger Lakes, New York and Marlborough, Connecticut.

We all know about roast beef or ham on Christmas and turkey on Thanksgiving. But what did our forebears eat on the Fourth of July? Salmon and peas were both available in the summer and made an excellent pairing.

If you decide to make this age-old meal, you may want to opt for a nice medium to full-bodied chardonnay. This wine, known as the red wine of whites, contains flavors ranging from lemon and apple to pineapple and papaya. When aged with oak, chardonnay can also show notes of vanilla.

The Best 4th of July Wines From Marketview Liquor

Ready to elevate your July 4th celebration with quality wine at competitive prices? Whether you want to make a Fourth of July white wine sangria or choose from the best bottles from a specific state, we have the vino for you.

Here are our top Fourth of July wine picks from popular U.S. regions.

With the perfect combination of terrain, soil and climate for growing wine grapes, Napa Valley is destined to make some of the best wines ever produced. Marketview Liquor carries a vast inventory of Napa Valley Fourth of July wines, including:

The Finger Lakes wine region began to grow into a veritable wine country following the New York Farm Winery Act of 1976. The majority of Finger Lake wines are sourced from Seneca Lake, Cayuga and Keuka wineries, with a small percentage from other minor lakes like Canandaigua. The area’s major European grapes are the classic Eastern European varieties of pinot noir, cabernet franc, lemberger, gewurztraminer and riesling.

Zesty, aromatic white wines made from sauvignon blanc grapes dominate Marlborough vineyards. Celebrate the Fourth of July in style with another of Marlborough’s staples — pinot noir. This mid-weight wine displays plum and cherry with a spicy red-fruited background and fine tannins.

You can also find well-structured chardonnays with citrus and stone fruit and pure, vivacious rieslings in the Marlborough sub-regions. Styles range from sweet to dry, lush to taut, including botrytized and late harvest wines.

Worried because the calendar is clear for your 4th of July? You can still kick back and relax at home or the beach. Just make sure you bring along a bottle of wine to lighten the mood and satisfy your taste buds. Buy a bottle, a few bottles, a case or a few cases from Marketview Liquor online today.As one of the most popular holidays on the calendar, Mother’s Day offers the perfect time to say thank you to all the maternal influences in your life. Whether you are planning a large meal to spend time with mom, or you just want to send her a gift that she will love, consider buying a bottle of wine for Mother’s Day.

Wondering what kind of Mother’s Day wine is best-suited for your mom? Consider her personality and wine leanings to pick the best wine gifts you can imagine. Here are three examples that may help you decide.

Does your mother love to host events and hang out with friends and neighbors every chance she gets? Turn your attention to the bevy of Sauvignon Blanc wines available online at Marketview Liquor.

Best served when chilled, Sauvignon Blanc is great alone, with nibbles or paired with bigger meals. Light, fruity and aromatic, Sauvignon Blanc can still boast complex flavors depending upon its region of origin. You can even find Sauvignon Blanc options that extend into more herbal tastes, giving your mom that extra reason to reach for your thoughtful gift.

When you picture your mom, does she always seem to be making some kind of treat in the kitchen? Surprise her with a case of mixed bottles of Chardonnays and Merlots.

True to its nature, Chardonnay offers stability. It is not just a staple in restaurants, but in home kitchens, as well. After all, Chardonnays can go with many types of ingredients, entrees, side dishes and appetizers. Be sure to pick Chardonnays with different undertones so she can choose exactly the right Mother’s Day wine for the moment.

Like Chardonnays, Merlots are essential for any household to have on hand — just in case. Smooth but sometimes full-bodied, Merlots tend to lean toward boldness and memorability. Your mom can pair Merlots with some of her more robust dishes featuring deep-flavored meats or stews. Who knows? You might have the opportunity to sample this Mother’s Day wine gift the next time you feast in her dining room.

Your mother has it all. She can be as sweet as the ripest apple, but she also has a wit you can appreciate from a mile away. To her, wine belongs in the sweeter category — as long as it has some character.

Enter any Gewurztraminer. As complex as its name, Gewurztraminer is definitely a sweeter wine. However, it offers surprising levels of depth and breadth, just like your mom.

Give the Best Wine Gifts on Mother’s Day

You may not have been a perfect child, but guess what? Your mom loves you no matter what!

Give a Mother’s Day gift she can appreciate all year long with a case of the finest wine available online.The fifth of May is a day to celebrate and feast, no matter where you live in the world. In fact, Cinco de Mayo celebrations have begun to pop up around the globe. This holiday boasts a world of fun and festivities, not to mention the perfect opportunity to try some of the best wines for Cinco de Mayo flavors.

If you are hosting a Cinco de Mayo party or looking for a special gift to present on this day of celebration, find out more about the four wines that make sense for any Cinco de Mayo gathering.

Why not choose a Spanish wine to celebrate the beautiful Spanish language, culture and wine regions? Spain has a wonderful array of white, red and sparkling wines from Castilla La Mancha and other wine regions that make for a perfect glass.

You can pair white or red wines with your favorite Cinco de Mayo meals or pop some sparkling wine to enjoy outside. These wines are the perfect selection to try for your celebration.

If you’re having an outdoor gathering or some grilled food for Cinco de Mayo, choose a wine to match. Red wines range from light and fruity to dark and rich. Consider a red grape or blend you haven’t tried before. Whether you love a sweeter or dryer wine, red wines for Cinco de Mayo are a great pairing.

With so many varieties to choose from, you might consider getting a few different bottles and having a red wine tasting to celebrate the Cinco de Mayo.

American wine-growing regions in Southern California have a similar climate to Mexico, producing grapes and wines which pair beautifully with celebratory foods you may serve. A great Cinco de Mayo wine pairing can be a California pinot noir, zinfandel or even a white wine.

With American wines, you have a wonderful selection of blends and various grapes. You can even choose ice wines. If you are celebrating Cinco de Mayo in the United States this year, an American wine is a great choice.

Ready or not, the deadline for your upcoming Cinco de Mayo get-together is coming. Instead of stressing about the best wine to serve for Cinco de Mayo, make life easy by ordering some bottles or cases through Marketview Liquor. It is one less item on your to-do list and one more way for you to wow your guests.While many kinds of Kosher wines exist, Kosher wines for Passover must live up to even more stringent requirements. Kosher Passover wines must have never come into contact with chametz, which is essentially any bread, grain or dough. Many Kosher wines are already acceptable to enjoy on Passover, but not all of them are.

Are you looking for a go-to Kosher wine that will pair well with your Passover meal? At Marketview Liquor, we have a wide range of Kosher wines available and are excited to help expand your horizons by offering wines for every occasion.

Kosher wine is produced according to Jewish dietary laws. These wines are made in several different countries due to their increased demand in recent years, including Italy, France, Israel and the United States. We’ve put together a Kosher wine list based on grape varieties to accompany your Passover meal:
• Merlot: With its easygoing, smooth nature and luscious dark fruit flavors, it’s no wonder merlot is one of the most popular red wines in the world. If you enjoy drinking fruity, smooth red wines with plenty of plum, blackberry and cherry notes, Kosher merlot may be the wine for you. Merlot is made from red-skinned grapes that can acclimatize to various climates to produce a variety of food-friendly wines. Known for its approachable style and sensual texture, this wine can be oaky and rich or plummy and velvety.
• Cabernet sauvignon: The youthful and vibrant cabernet sauvignon delivers a gentle sweetness to the palate with lingering bright blackberry, cassis and dark cherry flavors. This Passover wine’s rich, soft texture makes it perfect for drinking alongside red meats and tomato-based dishes or on its own.
• Chardonnay: Chardonnay is one of the best-known grape varieties globally and can have various flavor profiles depending on where it’s made. While unoaked chardonnay is typically fresh and light with plenty of stone fruit and citrus flavors, oaked varieties tend to have a creamy texture, full body and poignant tropical fruit and vanilla notes from the barrel aging. You will enjoy Kosher chardonnay if you’re looking for a distinctive white wine to pair with your meal.

Even if your family has a go-to Kosher wine for the Passover meal, challenge yourselves this year to find a selection of Kosher Passover wines that expand your horizons. At Marketview Liquor, we have a wide range of Kosher wines available online for you to consider. Choose a few that will pair well with your planned dinner, and have fun trying something new!Easter dinner usually marks the beginning of the spring season. Punctuated by a festive atmosphere, the meal can run the gamut from a traditional rack of lamb to a smorgasbord of favorite dishes. It is a wonderful opportunity to explore Easter wine pairings, especially for families eager to branch out from the standard Easter wine that may have been served for decades.

Deciding upon the perfect Easter dinner wine pairing involves concentrating on the main ingredients and partnering their flavors with the right wine flavors and undertones. Try some of the these exciting Easter wine pairings based on your menu!

Wine Ideas to Pair With an Easter Ham

Ham has become a go-to meat during the Easter lunch, brunch or dinner spread. Boasting a salty, slightly sweet flavor, ham deserves a wine that will curb its tang without overpowering its richness.

Two possibilities that go beautifully with ham include Riesling and gewurztraminer. Rieslings offer up ripe, crisp flavors and aromas that never try to overpower the importance of the ham or its accompanying side dishes. Most Rieslings fall on the dry side, which can be ideal for a ham seasoned with brown sugar, honey, orange, cloves or pineapple.

In contrast, gewurztraminer lands squarely in the sweet category. Spicier ham preparations benefit from having a softer, smoother gewurztraminer to balance their bite.

Wine Ideas to Pair With an Easter Rack of Lamb



Lamb is no stranger to the Easter dinner table, and it provides a much different meat sensation than ham. Because lamb is earthy with a gamy aftertaste, it needs a wine that marries its fatty acids without compromising lamb’s distinctiveness.

Try a Cabernet Sauvignon to change up the mood of any lamb Easter dinner. As a red Easter wine pairing, it never backs down from the challenge of standing out among strong flavors. Plus, each Cabernet Sauvignon has its own flavorful twists depending upon its origin. Consider purchasing a few bottles from different regions as a fun way to explore which Easter wine goes best for each person’s palate.

Wine Ideas to Pair With Poultry at Easter

Chicken and turkey have grown more popular as highlights of Easter dinner. Perhaps it is because of their presence all over grocery stores, or maybe because they are beloved by so many people. Whatever the reason, poultry pairs well with an incredibly large number of Easter wines. However, Chardonnay and pink wines may be two of its most frequent partners.

Chardonnay is such a crowd pleaser that many homes always have a bottle at the ready to pour. Yes, Chardonnay is dry, but never underestimate how fruity its aroma and flavor can be. Looking for an oakier blend to bring out sweeter tones in chicken, turkey or goose? Chardonnay is the right choice.

In terms of pink wines, Stella Rose Pink provides just the right touch of springtime lightness and energy. Crisp and flirty, it can become best friends with any poultry on the Easter dinner table.

This Easter dinner or lunch, expand your horizons with a bottle or two of new-to-you wines. Pick a tried-and-true Easter wine and at least one wild card to make your holiday mealtime even more sensational and memorable. Shop for your favorite wines today at Marketview Liquor. Remember that we offer case discounts on select wines.Wine and Spirits enthusiasts around the world love St. Patrick’s Day, and so do we! For those of you trying to avoid the beer belly aftermath, stocking up on your favorite and festive St. Patrick’s Day wine is crucial for proper preparation during this holiday. That’s why we put together this list of our favorite green wines complete with our favorite St. Patrick’s Day wine drinks that will elevate your celebration to new levels!

Wine lovers are always seeking opportunities to pop a bottle of their favorite wine. That’s why selecting green wine for St. Patrick’s Day is an exciting part of this holiday — it means more wine for you! To stick with the green theme of this holiday, consider trying one or both of our two favorite green wines.

Packaged in beautiful green bottles, gruner veltliner wines are light and fresh with tongue-tingling acidity and herbal notes. Pair with a hearty meal of green peas and shepherd’s pie for a mouth-watering St. Patrick’s Day celebration.

Sauvignon Blanc pairs well with white meats such as turkey, pork chops and chicken. Quite literally, sauvignon blanc originates from the Bordeaux region of France as a green-skinned grape variety.

If you’re looking to “go green” in a different sense on St. Patrick’s Day, opt for an organic or biodynamic wine from Marketview Liquor.

Pair your favorite St. Patrick’s Day meal with a glass of complementary wine to mark the occasion. The sky’s the limit when it comes to choosing the best wines for March 17th.

For wine drinkers who also enjoy hosting a festive St Patrick’s day wine experience, these two specialty St. Patrick’s Day drinks will leave your guests pleasantly surprised.

Concocting this drink with green wine for upcoming St. Patrick’s Day celebrations is quick and easy. Gather the following ingredients and follow the below instructions:
• One bottle of our lovely white Louis Jadot Macon-Villages Chardonnay

Instructions: Combine all fruit, lime juice, sugar and soda or seltzer into a serving pitcher or glass bowl. Let the mixture sit for four hours in your refrigerator, and then enjoy!

To make this holiday-appropriate drink, you will need the following ingredients:
• 1 bottle of our sparkling wine or a bottle of white wine

Instructions: Rub the top of each glass with melon and then add the green rimming sugar. Combine two ounces of the Midori Mellon Liquor with sparkling wine and garnish with your shamrock melon pieces!

How Marketview Liquor Can Help You With St. Patrick’s Day Wine

For your upcoming St. Patrick’s Day celebration, browse our wide selection of wine and order online today! You can also sign up for our newsletter to receive weekly shipping offers on our wine.With its fun bubbles and celebratory “pop,” it’s no wonder Champagne is associated with special occasions. While 20 percent of Champagne and sparkling wine sales occur in the last four weeks of the year, “bubbly,” as it is affectionately known, is not just for holidays, weddings or anniversaries. You can enjoy it year-round, and it pairs well with many different foods.

Did you know there are other sparkling wine varieties besides Champagne? Many people refer to any kind of bubbling wine as Champagne and are not exactly sure what the differences are between the two. This Champagne and sparkling wine guide will outline everything you need to know, including different types, production methods and regions of origin.

Is Sparkling Wine the Same as Champagne?

To get started, let’s set the record straight: sparkling wine is not the same as Champagne. While Champagne is a type of sparkling wine, not all sparkling wine can be considered Champagne.

What is champagne, then? To know for sure, take a look at the label to find out the region from which the wine hails.

True champagne is only grown, fermented and bottled in Champagne, France. In fact, the only bottles that may be labeled as “Champagne” must be located within 100 miles of the region. Also, only specific types of grapes, located in the French region, may be used to produce Champagne. These include:

These grape varieties are grown in the region’s cool and wet climate in soil that is chalky and rich in minerals. These conditions give the grapes a distinct acidic flavor that is used for the base of the wine — also called the cuvée, which is the concentrated juice that is extracted when the grapes are pressed. Most Champagnes are made from a blend of chardonnay and red grape varieties that are chosen for their characteristics such as aroma, flavor and fruitiness.

While Champagne itself had already been discovered, the version we know it as today is often credited to a Benedictine monk, Dom Perignon. During the time that he was cellar master at the Abbey of Hautsvillers in France, he developed the process of blending various wines to create Champagne with excellent flavor. He was also integral in coming up with a method of keeping the Champagne bottles from exploding — using thicker bottles and securing the corks with string. It is said that he still lost half his bottles to bursting, though.

Champagne’s crisp acidic taste cuts through rich, buttery dishes and pairs well with foods such as:
• Cheeses such as Brie, triple creme and mascarpone
• Buttery dishes and those containing honey

As a general rule, all sparkling wines can follow the same food pairing suggestions as Champagne.

While sparkling wine is indeed a type of wine, it is quite different from regular wine. Sparkling wine undergoes a second fermentation process that produces the CO to make it carbonated. Sparkling wine can be made from many different varieties of grapes and is not produced under the same strict standards as Champagne.

Sparkling wine is produced all over the world, with specific varieties from different countries and regions differing by characteristics such as bubble size, fruitiness and production method. While Champagne is perhaps the most well-known of all the sparkling wines, there are many other varieties, including:

Also known as German sparkling wine, Sekt tends to be less alcoholic than Champagne. Its flavor can vary in dryness and sweetness. Sekt is often made with riesling or pinot blanc, using Gruner Veltliner grapes. It can be served by itself with a fruit garnish or paired with foods such as:

Also known as Spanish sparkling wine, Cava is made from Spanish white grapes such as Macabeo, Parellada and Xarel-lo. Its flavor profile is similar to Champagne. Cava is extremely affordable, pairs perfectly with savory foods and light meals and is ideal to serve with tapas and foods such as:

Also known as Italian sparkling wine, Prosecco contains large bubbles that are great for use in mimosas. It is made from grape varieties such as Glera and Bianchetta Trevigiana and is described as fresh and light. These Italian wines, such as this Cupcake Prosecco, are dry, fruity and affordable, and they are perfect for pairing with main dishes and foods such as:

Also known as Cremant, sparkling French wine is produced in areas of France outside of Champagne, such as Burgundy, Alsace or Loire. Although it’s made with the same production method as Champagne, Cremant is less expensive, available in dry, sweet and rose varieties and pairs well with foods such as:

Many popular sparkling wines produced in America are made using both the Traditional and Tank methods. Made from primarily Chardonnay and Pinot Noir grapes, American sparkling wines tend to be lighter and fruitier. This is due to the larger amount of sunshine captured by the grapes from California. American sparklers, such as this pair well with foods such as:

Each sparkling wine undergoes a double fermentation. What differs is the location the fermentation happens, as well as several other factors such as the duration of the fermentation process and the pressure. Several production methods for sparkling wine exist, but the most common ones are the traditional method, or Methode Champenoise, and the tank method.

Champagne is produced with the traditional method. This method is recognized for the high-quality wines it produces, but it’s also one of the most expensive. Here’s what the process looks like:
• Picking and First Fermentation: Grapes are picked when they are still on the young side to help preserve their acidity, and then they undergo the first fermentation. From there, the resulting base is combined with other wine bases into what is known as a cuvée. This is the final blend that becomes the sparkling wine itself.
• Adding Ingredients and Bottling: Sugars and yeast are added to the cuvée, and the mixture now becomes known as the tirage. The tirage is bottled, sealed and placed in a cool cellar, where it is allowed to ferment.
• Aging: Once the fermentation process starts, the wine is left to age — a minimum of 15 months for regular Champagne and three years for vintage.
• Riddling: After the fermentation is complete, it’s time for filtering — also known as riddling. The bottle is placed upside down so that the dead yeast cells and a little bit of the wine collect in the neck of the bottle.
• Disgorging: Next is disgorging, or removing the yeast cells. The bottles go upside down into freezing liquid, which creates a plug of yeast and wine in the neck of the bottle. When the bottle cap is removed momentarily, the pressure from the CO forces that plug out, and clear Champagne remains.
• Dosing: The final step in this process is the dosage — a mixture of sugar and wine, known as Exposition liqueur, is added to create the desired sweetness and to fill the bottle. Then, the bottles are corked and labeled.

The tank method is the other common process, which is used for sparkling wines such as Prosecco. The process is similar to that of the traditional method, but instead of the second fermentation happening in individual bottles, it occurs in large tanks. There is also no aging process — the sparkling wine goes directly from fermentation to filtering, dosing and bottling.

What Are the Differences Between Sparkling Wine and Champagne?

While they are similar, there are some distinct differences between Champagne and other sparkling wine varieties. In addition to the production method, another feature that sets Champagne apart is the strict specifications under which it is made.

The Appellation d’ Origine Controlee strictly controls the production of Champagne with stringent standards on how the grapes may be grown, harvested and prepared. For example, only specific grape varieties grown in specific soil conditions may be used, and they must be harvested by hand and pressed in a covered environment.

Champagne may be classified as vintage, made with grapes from one particular year’s harvest, or non-vintage, made from a mix of grapes harvested in different years. Typically, only three or four vintages are produced every decade, and they are aged for a minimum of three years. Non-vintage Champagnes are held for about 1.5 years and are, of course, much more typical of the Champagne varieties you see. Since vintage Champagne is rarer than non-vintage, it also tends to be more expensive. Vintage bottles are clearly dated and marked with the vintage year.

Here are some of the other main differences when considering sparkling wine vs. champagne.

Some unique characteristics of sparkling wine are that it:
• Is not made with strict standards
• Can be made using many different varieties of grape
• Is made in many different countries and regions
• Is usually more affordable
• Can be lower quality due to quicker production methods and the quality of the grapes used. While some winemakers do use the same production method with fermentation occurring in the bottle, others use a method where the wine is carbonated in giant vats. While allowing for the large batches to be produced quickly, it does not always have the same quality.

Some attributes of Champagne are that it:
• Can only be made using seven specific grape varieties
• Can only be made in Champagne, France
• Is higher-quality due to labor-intensive production methods, the ideal climate and soil of the Champagne region and the quality of the grapes used. The production of Champagne takes a long time, from the cultivation of the grapes to the fermentation of each bottle, which can take decades.
• Is always fermented in individual bottles

The addition of sugar and yeast in the production process, as well as the types of grapes used, create the various styles of Champagne and sparkling wines available. Here are some of the most common terms you’ll see when selecting your ideal sparkling wine or Champagne:
• Extra Brut: This style is the driest wine available on the market due to the absence of any sugar. Extra brut wines, such as this Bellissima Zero Sugar Sparkling, contain between zero and 6 grams/liter of sugar.
• Brut: Brut champagne is dry and contains very little sugar. It is the most common designation for French sparkling wines, but brut sparkling wines possess a wide variety of different flavors and qualities. Brut wines, such as this Domaine Chandon Brut, contain between zero and 12 grams/liter of sugar.
• Extra Dry: Extra dry sparkling wines actually taste slightly sweet, due to the small amount of sugar they possess. This is a common designation for many American sparkling wines. Extra dry wines, such as this Domaine Ste Michelle Extra Dry, contain between 12 and 17 grams/liter of sugar.
• Sec: Sec wines are dry and noticeably sweet. Sec wines contain between 17 and 32 grams/liter of sugar.
• Demi-sec: Demi-sec wines contain an ample amount of sugar and are considered sweet without being overly so. They are the only types of sparkling wines that pair well with desserts — think wedding cake. Demi-sec wines, such as this Veuve Clicquot Ponsardin Demi-Sec Champagne, contain between 32 and 50 grams/liter of sugar.
• Doux: These are the sweetest wines and are considered dessert wines. Doux wines contain between 50 grams or more per liter of sugar.
• Blanc de Blanc: Literally meaning “white of whites”, this type of sparkling wine is made solely from Chardonnay grapes. These sparkling wines are light and clean and pair well with most foods, especially meats such as chicken and steak.
• Blanc de Noir: Literally meaning “white of blacks”, this type of sparkling wine is made from dark Pinot Noir and/or Pinot Meunier grapes. Blanc de Noirs, such as this Pehu Simonet Brut Blanc de Noirs Grand Cru, is a rich wine, containing notes of vanilla and berries that pairs perfectly with hard aged cheeses, Thai food and sweet fruits.
• Cuvee: While the term “cuvee” often refers to the first pressing of Champagne grapes, the meaning is a little different when seen on a wine label. Cuvee wines, like this Mumm Napa Cuvee M, are specially blended vintage house wines that are aged longer than others. They usually have a unique flavor and a higher price tag.
• Rose: Although many people associate rose’s pink color with sweetness, this pink-hued wine is usually dry with fruity notes. Created by blending in red wine or by allowing the dark grape skins to contact the clear grape juice, rose wines, such as this Mumm Napa Brut Rose, vary in color and flavor and are ideal for aperitifs or in brunch cocktails.

Once you’ve found your favorite sparkling wine variety, there are a few things to keep in mind when it comes to storing and serving it:
• Sparkling wine should always be served well-chilled and never at room temperature. A temperature of 45 and 50 degrees Fahrenheit is ideal. Store the bottles in the fridge for up to two hours — the exact time depends on if they are at room temperature or already slightly cooled. If you need to chill them quickly, you can put the bottles in a bucket filled with ice and cold water and leave them for about 20 minutes.
• To open the bottle, twist off the wire basket cap while carefully keeping a hand over the cork. Be sure to point the opening away from others, as the cork can sometimes pop off once the cap is off. Carefully ease the cork out by gently twisting it back and forth.
• Sparkling wine is best served in champagne flutes, whose tall and narrow shape serves to channel the bubbles over your palate. Tilt the glass while pouring so the wine pours down the side and allow the bubbles to settle before filling so it doesn’t overflow.
• Store unopened bottles of sparkling wine in a dark, humid place that’s between about 53 and 57°F, with the bottle on its side. If stored properly, sparkling wines can last anywhere from three to 10 years — or more if unopened.

How to Buy Champagne and Sparkling Wine

Now that you know all there is to know about Champagne and sparkling wine, here are some things to consider when making your next purchase:
• Budget: Champagne costs more than other types of sparkling wines, but many high-quality sparkling wines are grown with the same grape varieties, using the same methods, just not in the Champagne region. Keep in mind that vintage bottles cost more than non-vintages, with vintage designation not necessarily equating to better quality. No matter what you choose, you’re sure to find a delicious option that fits into your price range.
• Quality: The quality of Champagne is unmistakable due to the rigid growing and production standards and the specific grape varieties used. You can also find many higher-quality sparkling wines that are produced in the same way, only in different regions. Sparkling wine produced using the traditional method is usually higher in quality than those produced using the tank method.
• Purpose: When buying a bottle of bubbly, consider how it will be used. If you plan to mix it into juice or other cocktails, you may want to stay with a less expensive sparkling wine. However, if you plan to drink it on its own and flavor is a priority, consider purchasing a higher quality sparkling wine or Champagne.
• Flavor: Keep in mind the different flavor designations sparkling wine can possess and the types of foods with which they may be paired. Brut or extra brut wines will be dry and crisp, while those designated as sec will be sweeter. If you’re unsure about what type of flavor your guests will enjoy, it’s best to choose one that is not too dry or too sweet.
• Occasion: Champagne has a prestige unlike any other sparkling wine. Less expensive sparkling wines can be used for informal events. If you’re buying a bottle as a gift for a very special person or occasion, go with the Champagne. Sparkling wines are fine for a casual brunch, while the celebration of an engagement, wedding or new baby or gift for your boss may call for a more prestigious bubbly.

Where to Buy Champagne and Sparkling Wine

Marketview Liquor has the perfect sparkling wine or Champagne for your next celebration, brunch or quiet evening at home. We are proud to offer the greatest selection, service and savings every day on sparkling wines for morning mimosas to elegantly packaged bottles of Champagne, perfect for gift-giving.

We even offer discounted mix or match by the case Champagne and sparkling wine options – perfect for your next event.

Browse our extensive collection of Champagne and sparkling wines and be ready for your next toast-worthy event or dinner. Even better, have it shipped to you directly!For wine enthusiasts, a great bottle of wine is the perfect way to help a newlywed couple celebrate this new chapter in their lives. They can pop open the bottle during their honeymoon or cellar it for a later occasion – and toast to what great gift-giving friends they have! With so many different types of wines, all with unique flavors, there are several amazing choices out there for a bridal shower, bachelor/bachelorette or wedding gift.

How to Give Wine as a Wedding Gift

When you’re looking for the perfect wedding gift wine to give, there are a few things to keep in mind. If they love wine and have a fine palate, they’ll appreciate an exclusive bottle. If they’re more casual drinkers, it’s better to pick something that’s widely enjoyed.

The most important thing to remember is to get something the couple will like. Even if you love a certain wine, they may not enjoy it as much. If you know they love white wine, get them a nice bottle they may not typically splurge on.

For an extra fun touch, include a tag on the wine bottle (or even better, case of wine!) with a personal note from you, as well as a suggested time to enjoy it, or why it reminds you of them as a couple. Maybe you went on a trip together in Spain and you know their favorite Spanish Red, or they love Lord of the Rings, in which case a wine from New Zealand would be perfect.

In addition, if you choose a wine that ages well, it makes for a great gift that they can open later for a specific wedding anniversary especially if you include an “ideal to drink by” date with the year of the wedding anniversary. We promise it will taste much better than frozen wedding cake. We can even help you find the perfect wine if you know the amount you want to spend and the anniversary you want the couple to enjoy it on. Bordeaux in particular is ideal for an anniversary wine since it ages so well.

We’ve even had customers pick out a case of the same wine from the same year as a wedding gift and then open a bottle each time you visit (or each year) with the couple as a fun way to toast to their wedding, and celebrate your friendship. If you’ve ever wanted to try a vertical wine tasting, this is a great way to do something similar since you’ll be able to taste how it ages each year.

A bottle of wine is the perfect gift for almost any occasion, especially weddings. Wine is romantic all on its own, and memorable wines to have and hold for milestone anniversaries are particularly special. Here are a few of our top recommendations for wedding wine gift ideas.

If you’re looking to get the party started, arrive with a magnum bottle to appeal to most wedding guests. A magnum bottle is equivalent to two standard 750-milliliter bottles, so there will be plenty to go around. Impressive to guests and aesthetically elegant, magnums can be found across all kinds of wine.

You want to please the bride or groom, who will likely prefer a wine beyond chardonnay, the most popular wine in the U.S., or cabernet sauvignon, the most prevalent wine grape in the world. To accomplish this goal, just use your imagination.

Marketview Liquor offers a wide variety of high-end wines that are sure to please even the most exacting connoisseur.

Most port wine has a notably sweet or semi-sweet flavor that makes it a popular dessert wine. Although best known for its sweetness, port is a fortified wine with many more layers. Weddings are an excellent opportunity to serve any port variety chilled as an aperitif. You can buy white, red or tawny varieties of port wine online at Marketview Liquor.

Three Factors to Consider When Buying a Wine to Age

You may want to kick off a bride and groom’s happily ever after with a wine meant to stand the test of time. We’ve compiled a list of what to look for when buying wine to age:
• Sweetness: Sweet wines like port make an excellent gift for weddings as their natural sugars act as a preservative over time.
• Tannins: Tannins serve as a backbone as wine ages, keeping the liquid’s structure intact while its components settle.
• Acidity: Look for wines with a high acid content to keep the flavor from going flat over time.

Browse our extensive selection of wines today to pick out the right wine for a wedding gift. Even better, you can buy online and have it delivered directly to the happy couple. Consider getting the bride and groom a wine bottle gift set to help them celebrate their special day. All wine gift sets have shipping included! Also check out our wines that are available for free shipping on 12 or more bottles, or that are eligible for a mix or match case discount.They’re more than just for spritzers or to satisfy your sweet tooth. Crisp, tart, aromatic and expressive, the different white wine flavor profiles are as much of a journey for your palate as they are a tour around the world. However, many still assume that all white wines are too flat, too sweet — or worse — somehow not as sophisticated as reds. Pairing your white wine correctly can improve the experience you have with white wine as well. Take our Wine Pairing Quiz and find the perfect pairing for you!

Every wine-growing region around the world cultivates white wine grapes for a reason. With hundreds of varietals and variations, each of the many kinds of white wine showcases various smells, sights and tastes unmatched by other drinks.

Wineries make white wine by using over 20 different types of white grapes. Around 90% of grapes cultivated in the world trace back to a single grape varietal known as Vitis vinifera. While the original Vitis vinifera grapes were black, a genetic mutation occurred that led to the existence of the white grapes that we now use to produce most of the white wines you know today.

Wineries remove most white grapes’ stems, seeds and skins before the fermentation process. This process differs from red wine, which leaves the seeds and skins intact and also often incorporates the stems. The parts of the grape that winemakers remove for white wine have high concentrations of tannins, so white wines typically have a much lower tannin level than red wines. The high tannins in many red wines cause the dry-mouth feeling that most either love or hate.

White wine drinkers love their refreshing and tart acidity, floral aromas and fruit-forward nature. While most vineyards age their white wine in stainless steel vats to preserve the floral and fruity notes, others, such as chardonnay, age in oak to develop a nutty taste and creamy mouthfeel. Winemakers use various techniques to produce white wines, so you can find whites that range from tart and light-bodied to a more full-bodied dry white. White wines are incredibly versatile. Some, such as viognier, can pair well with fruit, while others like pinot blanc can stand up against heavy red meats.

What Are the Different Types of White Wine?

Our overview of white wines is here to change such misconceptions and encourage you to try something new. From everyday favorite picks to niche varietals even white wine experts don’t regularly see, we’ve put together a summary of the main types of white wine, as well as what to look for in a glass and ideal food pairings.

When most people think of white wine, they typically conjure the smells, flavors and features of one of its textbook classics: chardonnay.

Chardonnays are a model varietal to top the list of white wine types. Native to the legendary Burgundy regions of France, this green-hued grape grows universally today but thrives in colder climates such as the Pacific Northwest, New Zealand and South Africa. Some of today’s most popular chardonnays come from Napa and Sonoma Valley, readily accessible for passionate and novice white-wine drinkers alike.

Chardonnay-growing vineyards rely upon many fermentation tweaks to soften the grape’s natural acidity into gentler, silkier notes. Most prominent is the malolactic method, which is responsible for adding chardonnay’s noticeably light and creamy aftertaste. Many have even likened this white wine’s type’s flavor to butter or toffee.

You can expect pops of green apple, lemon, pineapple and celery in your chardonnay, rounded out by the candy-like coconut or caramel finish. Chardonnays can fall on the sweeter or dryer side depending on the type, though their unique finish helps keep it from becoming too flat or dessert-like.

If you’re interested in a more fruit-forward, light chardonnay, opt for a bottle that states “unoaked” or “no oak.” Likewise, those smooth, buttery finishes will come more prominently in Old World chardonnays that have oak-aged, per tradition.

A glass of chardonnay does wonders with the following foods:
• Semi-soft white cheeses, such as fontina, chevre and halloumi
• Most nuts, but especially almonds and cashews

Riesling, another popular type of white wine known worldwide, offers a diversity of flavor profiles that can suit nearly any drinker’s tastes. That’s because this white wine varietal comes in many forms, from the late-harvested sweet Mosel Valley varieties to their dryer, crisper French and Washington State riesling counterparts.

Riesling grapes are highly fragrant. Winemakers can manipulate them for tart ripeness or hold them on the vine for a more refined, longer-lasting finish. Either way, rieslings maintain a sharp, highly acidic and fresh, non-lingering body, whether winemakers make them sweet or dry.

Rieslings are generally on the thinner side, not high in alcohol and not likely to overtake the tastebuds when sipping alone or pairing with food. They do best without much fermentation or oak influence during the aging process, making this a slightly different white wine varietal in that winemakers can harvest, bottle and leave rieslings to age without much fuss.

This type of white wine carries notes of honey, lime, apricot, green apples and earthy minerals. The older the bottle, the dryer and deeper the flavors tend to run, as riesling grapes ripen quickly on the vine and can’t fully develop naturally complex flavors. Serve riesling on the chilled side, between 45 and 50 degrees Fahrenheit.

The zippiness and lightness of rieslings go well with the following snacks and meals, especially highly spiced or ethnic dishes:

This white wine is called something different, depending on where it’s made. Pinot grigios and pinot gris are the same grape varietal grown from the same grape mutation. The naming confusion merely arises from language, as Italians cultivate and call it grigio, while their neighbors to the north — the French — dubbed it the shortened gris.

Pinot grigios are incidentally a younger cousin to the similarly named pinot noir, a wildly popular red wine type. The two carry complementary olfactory notes – dry, woodsy and even floral on the nose. Interestingly enough, pinot grigio and pinot gris grapes are a foggy gray-purple color — a surprising twist for a white wine varietal that harkens to its red origins.

Pinot grigios carry a distinctly heavier texture compared to other white wine types on the list. Sips will coat your tongue with an oilier, velvety feel best described as buttery. This heavier body doesn’t necessarily mean a more decadent drink, though, as grigios and gris still contain the light, bright notes for which white wines are notorious. It merely turns up the dial, asserting the earthy with the sweet and finishing with a refreshing rather than in-your-face tartness.

Those who enjoy heavier-bodied wines with a slightly less fruit-forward palate will appreciate pinot gris. A typical glass will have notes of lemons, white nectarine, jicama, clove and ginger. Serve pinot grigios and pinot gris “cold,” around 45 degrees Fahrenheit.

The semi-dry and expressive flavors of pinot grigio combined with its long-lasting tang pair perfectly with the following foods:

Continuing down the pinot family line, next on the list of white wine types is the pinot blanc.

Famous in its home region of Alsace, France, and neighboring Austria, Italy and Germany, this white wine varietal is among the naturally dryest and most round-bodied in the family. While grigios/gris get lauded for their expressive pops of isolated flavors, a pinot blanc takes its time, with a medium-bodied presentation that blurs between sweet and smoky.

The flavor difference with this type of white wine is a crucial qualifier. While still incredibly light, pinot blancs contain a notable muskiness, both on the nose and the tongue. The best pinot blancs will even take on nutty notes, as well. Their medium bodies don’t overwhelm with their unique mix of heavy and light flavors, however. You’ll find a glass of pinot blanc carries bits of pear, lemon and yellow apple mixed with star anise, walnuts, applewood and mulch.

Pinots blancs finish on a slightly sour note due to their stable levels of acidity. Oak-barrel aging can tame this, which is a conventional treatment in pinot blancs from the United States, Canada and Argentina. Lighter versions aiming to stress the fruity and sour notes will skip any oak aging, though. Blancs with this treatment traditionally come from northwest Italy, go by the name pinot bianco and have a lighter, brighter finale.

Altogether, the pinot blanc makes for a delightful white wine with equally expressive fruit and wood notes. While it is fresh and flavorful, it doesn’t aggressively linger on the tongue. Pinot blanc is fit for dishes it won’t have to fight against, such as:

People have strong opinions about sauvignon blanc. The reason? While the word “blanc” translates from French as “white,” it’s one of the greenest-tasting types of white wine out there.

It’s also one of the world’s most heavily planted, leading to a wide range of those proverbial earthy smells and sips. With some of the highest acidity levels and punchiest fruit notes, you’ll taste everything from grapefruit to fresh grass cuttings, elderflowers to marjoram, green pepper to tomatillo in a single sip. However, that sip will finish dry.

New World sauvignon blancs tend to be slightly more fruit-forward than those cultivated in France. This type of white wine varietal has taken particularly well to the cooler slopes of New Zealand’s vineyards’ cooler slopes, where sauvignon blanc accounts for 58% of the country’s wine acreage.

The younger the blanc, the heavier the green or herbaceous notes — regardless of a vineyard’s country of origin. This varietal yields more pronounced and heavy-bodied waves like nectarine and peach to round out the savory notes when you allow it to ripen further.

Overall, the best sauvignon blancs keenly balance the two — herby with fruity, silky with sour and intensely flavored with quickly finished. They continue to be one of the most popular and common types of white wines on the market today.

Consider pairing your next bottle of sauvignon blanc with any of these foods:

You may not be able to say its name 10 times fast, but you can still enjoy this abundantly flavorful, albeit under-the-radar, white wine type — leaving you tongue-tied in more than one way.

When it comes to taste, few wines are as tangy and floral as gewürztraminers. Even some of the most fervently popular types of white wines renowned for their sweetness don’t compare to the juiciness and garden-like flavors you’ll get in a glass of this French-German noble grape.

Like the name might tease, gewürztraminers have a highly distinctive set of flavors and scent profiles that draw you in even while you’re pouring a glass. Gewürztraminers are inherently aromatic grapes that trick the senses into thinking they’re sweeter and less acidic than reality, with some complex results.

A glass of gewürztraminers will come with wafts of lavender and rose bouquets, followed by lychee, pineapple, strawberries and allspice. It is an ultra-light, refreshing and pleasantly spiced white wine perfect for drinking on a warm summer afternoon.

Enjoy a fragrant glass of gewürztraminers with these equally vibrant and well-seasoned mains:

It may be the darling of sweet-toothed white wine drinkers everywhere. But muscat and moscato wines have a storied history anyone looking to increase their white wine wisdom should know.

Muscat and moscato grapes are some of the oldest genetically unmodified vine types in existence, growing for more than 3,000 years. Like many wines on this list, the name discrepancy comes not from differences in the fruit, vines or bottles themselves, but from language. In France — considered the varietal’s homeland — you’ll hear and see “muscat” used to designate these silky-sweet wines made from muscat grapes. In Italy and most other parts of the world, you’ll see “moscato.”

Moscato gets its claim to white-wine fame from its smooth pours and languid sugary sweetness that dances in the mouth. It’s also one of our list’s lowest in alcohol content, with a typical moscato pour running 5 to 7% ABV.

Muscat grapes grow best in warm climates, which is why the grape grows well around the Mediterranean and in some parts of Australia. Notes of orange blossoms, Japanese pear, lilacs and white cherries build its sweet profile without much acidity or residual tang. What’s more, white wine Moscato will also come in “still” or “sparkling” versions, with bubbles adding a textural element that’s great to enhance some appetizers or mains.

Moscatos make for an unrivaled pairing with desserts — something that’s hard to achieve even for other sweet whites. Some of moscato’s best dessert matches include:

Likewise, entrees that go well with these popular white wine types are those with bold flavor profiles that can hold up to its fruity nature, such as:

Semillion white wine is France’s third most-planted vine type. However, few know of its rich, complex flavor profile, have tasted it from a freshly uncorked bottle or have even spotted it on a menu.

Flavor-wise, semillion grapes carry prominent herbaceous notes like a glass of sauvignon blanc while holding a body and acidity closer to a chardonnay. That is, flavors tend to stay longer on the tongue and roof of the mouth, plus leave a more nuanced aftertaste than what you experience at first sip. Some even describe semillion’s texture as oily or waxy, yet its flavors are plump and bright. It’s an impressive dichotomy hard to find in other white varietals.

Don’t let words like “oily” deter you from exploring the rich and singular taste of both Old World and New World semillions. This white wine tends to carry a more decadent, zestier flavor profile than other whites. Semillions cultivated in warm climates like South Africa and Argentina produce mango, papaya and white pepper bits. Cooler-climate varieties allow acidity levels to linger, tasting of lime, fig and ginger.

Semillion’s strong up-front expressions but toned-down aftertaste make it a suitable pairing with these dishes:

Viognier is hardly ever the talk of the town, even though it’s one of the most prototypical of white varietals.

For those drawn to the naturally lush, light, floral and acidic features so tied to white wines, viognier is heaven in a glass. The nose hits you with perfumed, bouncy and airy floral aromas. Viognier’s full-bodied, full-fruit tastes enhance these notes by hitting the roof of your mouth and staying there until your next sip.

In many aspects, viogniers are the older, perhaps “nicer” twin sister to the chardonnay. Their origins sweep back to ancient vineyards planted by the Romans across parts of their Eastern and Western European empires. But, viognier’s lush, low-yield grapes were the rarer, more prized growth. That attitude has carried over into today, as viogniers only have about 30,000 acres of vines worldwide.

Nowadays, you don’t have to be part of society’s gentry to find and enjoy good bottles of viognier. This type of white wine is soft and fruity, with less weight on the tongue than other whites but bursting with juicy flavors of violets, pears, mangos, honeysuckle and tangerine. With less acidity than a chardonnay, you can expect these flavors to succeed with a smooth, clean finish with aftertastes dependent on whether the bottle was age-oaked. Unoaked viogniers will keep their peach-and-apricot-light finish, while those aged in oak temper fruity acidity to produce a spiced, semi-dry clove and vanilla finish.

Highlight this underappreciated type of white wine at your next meal that contains any of the following:

A glass of cortese is the perfect white wine to sip after a long day. It’s crisp, tart, structured and flavorful, hitting rounded notes of herbs, musk and fruit alike. It’s also yet another white wine that doesn’t get the praise it deserves — perhaps because of its highly regional growths and the limited number of vineyards that nail its temperamental nature.

While cortese grapes are some of the highest-yielding vines in existence, they require a particularly warm atmosphere that slowly develops their fruit. The heat allows the grapes’ sugars to ripen and produce more complex flavors, not merely lending a hit-and-run acidity punch. However, with too much warmth, the cortese grapes reach maturity without this necessary sugar balance, striking more sour notes that require tempering with malolactic fermentation methods.

The best cortese wines come from the Piedmont and Lombardy regions of northern Italy. A glass will have notably green or straw tints but pour smooth and clear, without much fizz or bubbles. Cortese checks all the white-wine flavor boxes, carrying flavors of lime, banana, passion fruit, mulch and campfire smoke. They’ll finish with an uptick of acidity that plays on the back of the tongue and stays there, all due to the wine’s viscosity and almost fatty feel in the mouth.

Cortese’s abundance of flavors and rich, luxurious finish will amplify many dishes with robust, fresh profiles:

Torrontés is an aromatic white wine that primarily comes from Argentina’s northern regions. When you pour a glass of torrontés, you can smell a sweet floral aroma of roses and geraniums and taste notes of white peach and lemon zest. Most torrontés wine is dry, despite its sweet smell. If you’re a fan of a dry riesling, torrontés is a must-try due to the similarities between the two wines. While it’s a dry wine without much residual sugar, the sweet aroma plays on its dryness and adds a light jovialness to the wine.

You can expect to pay anywhere from $8 to $12 for a high-quality bottle of torrontés wine.

The light aromatic nature and dryness of a torrontés pair well with heavily spiced meals and light meats and fishes, such as:
• Herbs and spices such as cilantro, basil, mint, jalapeno, cayenne, turmeric and cumin

Albariño originates in the Rìas Baixas region of Spain and regions of Portugual. Although Spain is known internationally for red wines, Albriño is considered Spain’s premier white grape.

This coastal white is refreshing and zippy, with notes of grapefruit and lime. You can experience notes of orange zest, honeysuckle and nectarine with whiffs of Thai basil. Each subtly salty glass is perfect for seafood plates and other aromatic meals.

Enjoy albariño with one of these flavor-filled dishes:

Chenin blanc has a delicious range from sparkling to dry, making this an excellent addition to your wine cabinet and diner table. The grape that creates this wine is incredibly versatile, able to form fully sweet or bone dry bottles. Chenin blanc can rival chardonnay when oak aged, and the grape is believed to be a sibling of sauvignon blanc.

It has honeyed aromas and a rich taste with an excellent balance of sweetness and acidity. Chenin blanc is popular in South Africa, where it’s blended with marsanne, viognier and semillion. You can taste undertones of yellow apple, chamomile, pear, honey and quince in an aromatic glass of this acidic wine.

Pair your glass of chenin blanc with these delectable dishes:

A glass of white wine can complete a delicious dish and bring elegance and flavor to a dish. If you’re trying to determine what pairing would be best for you, we’ve answered some frequently asked questions so you have everything you need to know about white wines.

Although many whites are dry, white wines tend to provide more sweet flavors than red wines. The acidity of white wines makes them less sweet, but you can identify sweet or dry wines from labels, such as semi-sweet and off-dry.

Residual sugar classifies wine as sweet or dry. Pinot grigio, albriño and sauvignon blanc tend to be dry. Other white wines like New World chardonnays and rieslings can fall between off-dry and dry. Although some of these can also create sweet blends, you can identify whether they’re dry by the amount of sugar.

Sweet wines tend to be fruity, and you can find delectably sweet profiles in moscato, riesling and white zinfandel. These wines have more sugar than dry wines and have a different fermentation process. These wines are less acidic and have fewer tannins.

White wine differences can be noticeable when comparing a sweet or dry glass. However, some wines are similar in taste, and differences can be challenging to determine. Sauvignon blanc tends to emit a more citrusy aroma, while pinot grigio is typically sweeter. Though both are considered dry wines, pinot grigio tends to be sweeter than sauvignon blanc.

What Is the Most Popular White Wine?

Chardonnay is the most popular white wine. California has dedicated the most vineyards to growing grapes for chardonnay, and the flavors make it easy to see why. The caramel and coconut finishes make this a delectable sweet or dry wine. However, moscato is the most popular sweet white wine.

Whether you’re looking to push your palate, expand your knowledge of all the different white wine types out there or find a Rochester-area wine tasting, Marketview Liquor is here to help. Explore our white wines today, available for online ordering, or pick them up in-store if you are near our Rochester, N.Y. location. We also offer free shipping on select bottles of six or more wines, as well as 10% mix and match case discounts – ideal if you’d like to try a few different wines at once, delivered directly to your door!

There’s a story behind every bottle of white wine and a new world in every sip. Start experiencing them today.A universally beloved beverage with a long history, red wine is available in dozens of different varieties. Winemakers can produce them either from a single type of grape, known as a varietal, or as a specialty mix of grape blends. This versatility is key to the beauty of the beverage and what leads to its wondrously unique and complex range of colors, flavors and finishes. There are so many different varieties, in fact, even connoisseurs spend years understanding what the “best” types of red wine are — and why.

Whether you’re a seasoned wine lover looking to brush up on red wine facts or a novice just starting to explore all that red wine has to offer, we’ve got your guide to the different types of red wine.

We’re launching our list of types of red wines with the indisputable winner of global popularity contests, cabernet sauvignon.

Cabernet sauvignon is the most cultivated red wine type in the world — and for understandable reasons! This grape type grows well in warmer, milder climates, has a dark, near-blue color when picked from the vine and thick skins loaded with tannins. Tannins are directly responsible for those sharper, dryer and more astringent profiles behind certain red wine types, plus gives sauvignons their prized long-lasting finish.

Cabernet sauvignons are so popular because they strike that perfect balance between high tannins and fruity flavors, dry and sweet, sharp and smooth. A glass of good cab will hit your tongue with notes of bell peppers and cassis, linger with oak and finish with hints of black cherries, blueberries and blackberries. Among types of red wine for beginners, it makes for the quintessential varietal to start your foray into the world of red wines.
• Cheese plates, especially aged gruyere and gouda, plus blue cheese and other “funky” rind cheeses
• Fattier cuts of steak, such as sirloins or ribeyes

The parent of sauvignon, cabernet francs see slightly less pop adoration but a lot of the same reverence and cultivation culture within the wine world. They are staples of the French Bordeaux region, which has a nearly iconic winemaking history buffs and beginners likely know. While winemakers cultivate New World varietals in places like California and New York, your classic Bordeaux-derived francs are where the story of this red wine type began.

Cabernet francs are one of the naturally earthier red wine types. On its own, it produces a well-rounded, acidic-forward flavor that mixes violets, strawberries, cassis, leather and oak with plums and peppercorn. Uncorking a cabernet franc that’s aged even for as little as two years should carry this unique body and rich mix of flavors characteristic of the producing winery.

Most glasses of cabernet franc will deliver a decisive “pucker” sensation immediately upon hitting the front of the tongue. Due to its medium body, this sensation lingers slightly longer than other types of red wine — but not enough to turn the entire profile too tart or vinegar-like, which you risk with underaged or overdeveloped bottles.

Cabernet franc’s higher acidity, but medium body, make it play well with many veggies and meats, including:

The taste of pinot noir is one of the most versatile, yet varied, on the market today. That’s because winemakers produce pinot noirs on nearly every grape-growing continent, from the foothills of New Zealand’s mountains to the tepid air of Sonoma Valley to its birthplace on the rolling hills of Burgundy, France.

Such a geographic sprinkling means pinot noir grapes grow in different soils that extract different nutrients. That, in turn, affects the chemical makeup, and thus flavor profiles, of this thinner-skinned grape type. Pinot noirs that grew in older European vineyards still provide the varietal’s fruit-forward flavor template, while North American pinot noirs carry brighter notes and South American pinot noirs a slightly softer aftertaste.

A pinot will pour paler, yet silkier, than other red wines. It will be more translucent in the glass and have a ruby-red coloration uniquely lighter than most others on this list of red wines, with a characteristically smooth, full-tongued finish.

There are so many dishes to pair alongside pinot noir, from classic meat-based meals to an eclectic array of charcuterie. Some foodie favorites include:

Malbecs are a rich, dark and luxurious variety that’s a star in its own right. They have a deep, almost inky purple color and a strong, above-average array of tannins that lend this type of red wine a bold and fruity flavor.

They’re also geographical transplants, originating in southwest France but finding near-idyllic growing conditions across the ocean in South America. In fact, malbecs make up one of South America’s top red wine varietals. They’re exceptionally successful in Argentina, which grows more than 75 percent of the world’s malbec grapes in its high-elevation, high temperature-fluctuating agricultural regions. These conditions give the malbec grapes the right conditions to produce key levels of acidity and create deep flavors without a too strong bitter aftertaste.

If you need another reason to add malbecs to your list of red wines to try, note it’s also one of the best wines for you. Malbecs contain some of the highest concentrations of antioxidants not only in the wine family, but out of most fruit plants.

Opt for malbecs when you’re in the mood for a fundamental berry and plum-flavored wine. Malbecs generally will also contain notes of cocoa, allspice, raisins, sour cherries, tobacco and pomegranates.

Match this vibrant and rich red wine with the following foods:
• Lean red meats, such as venison, bison or even ostrich

Gamays are not often the talk of the town. In fact, when most people ask what types of red wine are there, very few remember to name-drop gamays — even though this grape varietal has a “personality” entirely its own.

Gamay grapes grow almost exclusively in the Beaujolais region of France. Sitting just south of Burgundy, Beaujolais cultivated a twist to their neighbors’ more tannin-forward, thicker-skinned grape by developing the low-tannin, milder-bodied red gamay.

Gamays are incredibly distinct in both fragrance and taste. They are among one of the lightest and most aromatic red wine types, yet keenly balance sweetness with bright acidity. In smell alone, you can expect notes of cherries, cedar and vanilla to pop out. Many have noted younger gamays smell acutely like bananas — even banana candy — something you’d be hard-pressed to find in any other type of red wine.

Gamays are fresh and easy to drink compared to heavier red wine counterparts, making them perfect for a balmy summer evening. Tastes on the front of the tongue will include cranberries, raspberries and red licorice, rounded out by lingering notes of yellow pear, almond and even baker’s yeast.

Gamays are genuinely one of a kind. When explaining the differences in red wine types, it’s hard to find anything similar to both the smells and flavors of a good gamay. Such a novel varietal deserves equally flavorful food pairings:
• Most seafood, but especially tuna, salmon, cod and calamari
• Charcuterie plates with chicken paté, nuts and white-rind cheeses like brie and camembert
• Frisee salads with chicken or bacon and fruit
• Jambalaya and other Cajun or Creole fare

Smooth and soft from start to finish, merlot wines might easily be overlooked — but they are universally embraced and ultra-agreeable on the palate.

There are a few unique features to a glass of merlot, beginning with its rim. The younger the merlot, the more you should note an orange-tinted rim hanging onto the glass, as well as its darker, almost blueberry coloration at the center of a pour. Taste-wise, merlots carry lush fruity notes, heavy on flavors of cedar, cherries, chocolate and currants. Tannin levels are moderate, and acidity stays in check with an uptick in those fruity notes that don’t veer overly sweet.

Merlots have stood the test of time to be the second-most planted grape variety today. They are hearty vines that thrive throughout Italy, Northern California, Washington’s Columbia Valley and Western Australia.

Overall, a glass of merlot is like the Goldilocks of wine. It is neither too robust nor too light, too sweet or too acidic. It makes this type of red wine particularly food-friendly for dozens of dishes like:
• Grilled and barbecued meats, as long as they’re not too spicy

Those looking to diversify their wine portfolios would do well to check out barbera, another different type of red wine that often doesn’t get the spotlight it deserves.

Barbera grapes call northern Italy their home, where winemakers often cultivate them in lower-elevation vineyards and seasoned slopes. There, they receive a fair amount of rolling fog and foothill moisture, encouraging winemakers to employ old-oak barrel aging practices to harness full flavors from their thin and susceptible skins. Newer oak barrels are generally not best for aging barbera, as the bite of fresh oak bark can easily overpower these straightforward, low-bodied grapes.

Barbera is sometimes called the “people’s wine,” a nod to its historical popularity among the Italian working class. Rather than scoff at this heritage, as some highbrow wineries have, there’s been a reinvigoration to take and make this grape all it can be.

Barbera is innately tart and can actually be a good bridge for white wine fans dipping their toes into the world of reds — even though it might take some convincing beyond visuals, as barberas are one of the darkest-colored red wines. It has a low tannin count and a floral, zesty smell that directly courts its flavor profile. Barberas contain fruity and fleshy tangs with a mildly spiced, even herbaceous finish. Typical flavor descriptions include boysenberry, anise, clove, lavender and cherry.

The best barberas complement bold main and side dishes alike, whose seasonings can shine next to its bright and sharp sips.

“Shiraz” if you’re in Australia and “syrah” when you’re just about anywhere else, this red wine type is for those searching for big, bold flavors and a clean, velvet finish.

It’s an unusual combination to strike, yet syrahs consistently do — most notably through a process called cold soaking, where these extremely thick-skinned grapes get harvested and then immersed in freezing water for days, sometimes weeks, depending on the winery and their intended results. Cold soaking amplifies the sweeter berry notes of wine grapes while tempering the effects of its harsher tannins. It also helps produce syrah’s gorgeous dark magenta color and notably opaque pour.

Old-World syrahs derived from Greek or Sicilian grape ancestors contain more robust, earthy flavors like black olives, blackberries and tobacco, while New World syrahs — most reputably Australia’s world-famous shirazes — carry forward notes of acai, cassis, black fruit jams and mocha.

Syrah makes an excellent match with the following foods:

Few wines match the bright, polished and sweet notes of a red zinfandel — or as high of an alcohol level. With grape origins that trace back to Croatia, your typical glass contains between 14 to 17 percent ABV, but can go even higher, depending on productions methods and aging.

Red zinfandels are often a gateway red wine accessible for new, explorative sippers. For many, the light, fruity pops of acidity are pleasant on the palate and easy to enjoy as a solo pour, to serve during a cocktail hour or to pair with a variety of meals. And though it has a lighter body similar to a pinot, this red wine type finishes on the front of the tongue, fading from signature fruit flavors like cranberries, raspberries, figs and prunes to dryer profiles of cardamom and cinnamon or other warm spices.

The rim of a zinfandel may skew slightly blue — a telltale sign that the wine contains a higher acidity level. Likewise, its primary coloration will range from deep scarlets to the proverbial maroons and magentas you expect when you pour a glass of red wine.

Because of its distinct light sweetness, red zinfandels are a match made in heaven for ethnic foods and dishes with strong spice profiles:

A list of the best types of red wines would be incomplete without Spain’s claim to red-wine fame. It is one of the country’s premier varietals — and a growth they’re perhaps most proud of, with Spain’s list of laws governing Tempranillo production and labeling running quite extensive.

That is in part due to Tempranillo’s highly unique flavor profile. It is one of the earthiest red wines on the market, low in lingering acidity, yet holding a bold, aromatically spiced finish many relish. Tempranillo courts a higher presence of oak than other red wines as well. Because tempranillo grapes ripen nearly two to three weeks earlier than other grape varietals, wineries can manipulate their profiles within their oak aging barrels. This process eases tempranillo’s naturally acidic nitrates and leads to the nutty and earthy finishes signature to this red wine.

A glass of tempranillo will carry flavors of green herbs, cigar smoke, vanilla and star anise. It is a warm, striking flavor profile in a deep-bodied pour that doesn’t like to fight against other tastes, preferring to be the star of the table. Pair it with rustic or classically unadorned mains:

Grenaches are a final power play to round out the list of different types of red wine in this guide. A canonical varietal grown everywhere from southern France to the tips of Australia, it is popular because it checks nearly every box expected from a glass of red wine: fresh aromas, a vibrant body, complex sweet and savory flavors and a full-mouth, smooth finish.

Candied fruits and wild berries are the first notes to hit the tongue when sipping grenache. Subtle citrus, from orange peels to grapefruit, balances out these sweeter tastes. You can also expect hints of smoke and floral lavender to linger, especially for Old World varieties that grow in France, Italy and Spain — where the locals call this same red wine type garnacha.

Grenaches pour relatively smooth and semi-translucent. Not unlike a cabernet sauvignon, they’re ideal for wine drinkers seeking out a middle-of-the-road varietal, an experience that doesn’t lean too dry or too sweet, too heavy or too light.

It’s almost impossible to mispair grenache with food. A glass or two will complement most cuisines from around the world and hold up to uncommon dish matches:
• Braised or slow-cooked meats, but especially pork, veal and chicken
• Roasted or grilled veggies, especially cauliflower and zucchini

Marketview Liquor: Your Experts on All Different Types of Red Wine Explained

There’s an entire world of wine awaiting you — and one store that brings it to your fingertips.

Whether you’re looking to learn about red wine types, shopping for the perfect bottle, how to pair your wine or come in for a Rochester-area wine tasting, Marketview Liquor is here to help. We offer a premier collection of red wine varietals from every corner of the globe, and can ship to your home directly in most states.

Browse our extensive selection and shop red wines today, with nearly all our wine inventory available for online order.From its fruit-forward flavor to its soft and elegant body, Merlot wine has impressed connoisseurs for centuries. Because of its diverse range of styles, Merlot shines as both a blending wine and a single variant. The comparatively lower tannin presence of Merlot makes it a smooth and accessible addition to any collection, as well as a perfect option for those just beginning to drink red wines. Merlot is an easy-to-drink red wine that can complement a wide array of dishes.

Despite its merit as a versatile and classic wine, consumers recently moved away from Merlot due to plummeting quality in the 1990s and poor pop culture representation. However, devoted vintners continued to cultivate stellar products despite the market setback, and Merlot slowly regained its rightful place among classic red wines. Merlot is now the second most-planted grape in the world, covering roughly 600,000 acres across the globe in 2010. Found in vineyards from California to France to Italy to Australia, Merlot is definitely a grape you shouldn’t ignore.

What Is Merlot Wine Like?

If you’ve never taken French, your first question may be, “How do you pronounce Merlot wine?” Pronounced “mur-loh” or “mair-loh,” Merlot grapes are related to the French grapes cabernet franc and a more obscure vine, the Magdeleine Noire des Charentes. The Merlot grape has a deep black-blue color and a thin, delicate skin. Its name derives from a word meaning “little blackbird” in an older dialect related to French, though it is uncertain whether this refers to the color of the fruit or the birds’ fondness for the grape.

Because they can grow in a variety of soils and climates, Merlot grapes grow in most wine-producing countries. Most Merlot grapes grow in France, but the United States has also become a significant presence in the Merlot world, cultivating around 55,000 acres. Merlot is the fifth most-planted wine grape in Italy, and it also grows in parts of Chile, Australia, New Zealand, Spain, South Africa, Argentina, Switzerland, Bulgaria and China.

What kind of wine is Merlot? With a velvet-red color and medium-to-full body, this fruity wine falls between pinot noir and Syrah wines in fullness and hue. Merlot has a higher alcohol percentage — ranging from 12 to 15 percent alcohol by volume — a result of the grape’s naturally higher sugar levels, which lead to a higher alcohol content at the end of the winemaking process. While Merlot is a dry wine, it is sweeter than other reds like cabernet sauvignon.

Because of Merlot’s milder flavor and lower tannin levels, winemakers often use it in blends to soften stronger red wines, especially cabernet sauvignon. How long can you keep Merlot wine? While vineyards sometimes age Merlot in oak to increase its richness or complexity during the winemaking process, you should keep most bottles of Merlot for only three to five years after purchase.

Originating in the hills of the Right Bank of Bordeaux, Merlot entered the wine scene in the late 1700s. It first earned praise as a blending wine to add softness and lushness to the favorite grape of the region, cabernet sauvignon. This match led to the world-renowned Bordeaux blend, which has delighted wine enthusiasts for centuries. Merlot gained popularity as a powerful blending wine and began to spread across the world. Although it thrives in the clay and limestone soil of France, part of Merlot’s success is its adaptability, which enables it to flourish in regions across the globe. Merlot is especially successful in Italy, where the grape is behind the best of the “super-Tuscan” wines.

Despite Merlot’s popularity in its home region, winemakers did not produce it as a single variant until the grape traveled outside France. Vintners in California began developing 100 percent Merlot varieties, due to Americans’ love of the lightness and lower tannin levels of the wine. While this led to a boom in Merlot’s production and popularity, it also led to the brief decline of Merlot in the 20th century.

The Rise, Fall — Then Rise Again — of Merlot

Merlot arrived in California in the mid-19th century, but remained relatively obscure until the 1990s. As the winemaking industry in California grew, vintners recognized Merlot as an easy grape to produce in large quantities. Its ability to mass produce, coupled with its milder flavor, caused Merlot to skyrocket to fame. Merlot enjoyed two decades of incredible market success. However, because of its fast rise, many producers were growing the grapes in subpar conditions and over-irrigating the vines to keep up with market demands. Rushed production led to cheap, low-quality wine that began to tarnish the once-loved wine’s reputation.

But in 2004, Merlot had its downfall. The critically acclaimed film “Sideways” premiered, featuring a protagonist who was less than complimentary about the wine. Pinot noir became the sleek, sophisticated wine of choice, leaving Merlot in its dust.

The combination of poor production and bad reputation had one positive, however — the winemakers who continued to grow Merlot re-committed to producing the highest quality. This revival did not go unnoticed, and popular opinion about Merlot began to turn. More and more people are rediscovering the beauty of this versatile wine, and a thinner market means you can now find good-quality Merlot at lower prices. Merlot even has its own holiday, International Merlot Day, which you can celebrate on November 7 with a bottle of your new favorite red wine.

To begin the winemaking process for merlot, vintners take care to remove all stems from the grapes to decrease the tannin level and bitterness of the wine. Merlot grapes get fermented at 82 to 86 degrees Fahrenheit with the skins on, which lends the wine a rich red color. Because they have thinner skin than other red wine grapes, Merlot wine naturally has a lower tannin level. Tannins are chemicals predominantly in the skins, seeds and stems of grapes, as well as the wood where the wine ages. Although they do not carry any smell or taste, tannins give wine structure and texture by introducing astringency, which is the sensation of dry mouth that causes your facial muscles to tighten when you take a sip. Tannin levels in wine are distinct from acidity — while we experience tannins through touch or texture, we experience acidity as a flavor.

During the fermentation, many producers will push down on the skins three times a day to keep them wet. Time spent in skins varies between vintners, but an average is 14 to 21 days. For a softer finish, producers keep the wine for fewer days on the skins.

Following the fermentation process, winemakers store Merlot inside oak barrels at a temperature of 26 degrees Fahrenheit, or a little below, and typically age it for about eight months to a year. Aging Merlot in oak adds more tannins to the wine.

Like with any wine, vintners can make variations during the process to change the flavor profile of a Merlot. The degree of aeration, force of press, time of harvest and temperature all contribute to the unique character of each Merlot variety.

It’s All About the Fruit — Merlot’s Taste Profile

What does Merlot wine taste like? While it is a dry wine, Merlot is comparatively low in tannins. That creates a smoother, less bitter experience, and makes Merlot softer and easier to consume than many of its counterparts. The most notable flavor and aroma of Merlot wine is fruit. Often, Merlot carries raspberry notes, as well as black cherry, plum, blueberries and even jam. These notes give many Merlots an aroma similar to fruitcake. Other common notes of Merlot include graphite, cedar, tobacco, vanilla, cloves and chocolate.

However, depending on the climate where the grapes grow, Merlot wines can have a diverse array of flavors. Merlot grapes fall into two different growing climates — cool and hot. In the world of wine, these terms are more subjective. Old World producers consider 60 degrees Fahrenheit to be “warm,” but the same temperature is “cool” for many New World vineyards. Below are some general differences between Merlot grown in cool and warm climates.

Cool-climate varieties are the classic Merlot. From the hills of France, Italy and Chile, these strains feature heavy, earthy flavors like tobacco and tar. Because of their higher concentration of tannins, it’s easy to confuse these Merlots with cabernet sauvignon, their regional counterpart.

Cool-climate Merlots contribute to the famed Right Bank Bordeaux blends, along with vintage strains such as St. Emilion, Pomerol and Fronsac.

Warm-climate Merlots heavily feature fruit notes and a lighter body. Grown in the sun-filled valleys of California, Australia and Argentina, these wines have a lower tannin presence and a softer finish. Classic warm-climate Merlots come from California’s Paso Robles and Napa Valley.

For warm-climate Merlots, vintners sometimes prefer an oak-aging process of up to 24 months, which gives the delicate wine more structure.

Types of Merlot Around the Globe

Every province where Merlot grapes thrive produces slightly different characteristics in the wine. Below are the top-producing Merlot regions, and descriptions of what makes them unique.

The birthplace of the grape, Bordeaux, France, is home of the most iconic Merlots. Merlot remains the most commonly planted grape along the river, especially on the Right Bank. Bordeaux Merlots have prominent earth and mineral tones, depending on the soil they grow in. Bordeaux vineyards with limestone-rich soil tend to produce Merlots with fresh mineral notes, while clay soil produces broader, more robust flavors. Bordeaux Merlots can be unoaked or stored in new French oak. Many of the region’s grapes go into value-driven blended wines. However, some, such as Château Pétrus, develop over decades.

For a Bordeaux Merlot blend, try the Chateau Saint-Sulpice Bordeaux. Made with 70 percent Merlot, 20 percent cabernet sauvignon and 10 percent cabernet Franc, this wine features black cherry, spice and plum notes, and is best after airing for about an hour.

Under the warm sun of central Italy, Merlot grapes from Tuscany tend to be slightly larger, which some vintners say lessens harsh tannins. Tuscany Merlots are famous and expensive, and can feature the Merlot grape on its own or blended with Bordeaux or local varieties. The Merlot grapes that grow in Tuscany often contribute to blends known as the “super-Tuscans,” such as Toscana IGT or Bolgheri DOC. Tuscany Merlots range from oak-forward, broad profiles to earthy, subtle flavors.

In the northeastern part of Italy, Friuli-Venezia Giulia is most famous for its indigenous white grapes, but Merlot is the most-planted red grape in the region. Like their central Italian cousins, these Merlot grapes can be blended or grown as a single varietal. Some small wineries produce expensive cool-climate Merlots, which burst with anise, spice and stone notes.

Merlot grapes are the second-most popular grape in this sunny state known for its vineyards. California Merlots range from sweet grocery store varieties to high-end, nuanced masterpieces. As the best-known wine regions in the state, Paso Robles and Napa Valley produce delectable Merlots characterized by a smooth, jammy fruit profile, along with hints of vanilla, sweet spice and new oak.

If you are interested in a classic California Merlot, try the consumer-favorite Marilyn Merlot, which offers flavors of blueberries and vanilla.

Washington’s interest in Merlot sparked around the same time as California’s, but the Evergreen State kept at it after the Golden State turned away. Producers combined the versatility of Merlot with their signature tradition of medium-bodied wines. Washington vintners blend the best of the New World and the Old, giving their Merlots lush flavors of cherry and other berries. Washington Merlots tend to feature greater acidity and tannic bite. The Columbia Valley produces the highest quantity of Merlots, but other regions producing excellent Merlots include Horse Heaven Hills, Walla Walla Valley and Red Mountain.

Consider the Columbia Crest Grand Estates Merlot as a starting point. This aromatic wine has smooth notes of coffee, plum and dark chocolate.

Historically, Chilean reds have been cabernet sauvignon or carménère-based wines, but Merlot is quickly gaining ground in this coastal South American country. For a few decades during the late 20th century, Chilean vineyards sold and marketed wine with incorrectly identified carménère grapes as Merlot. Producers have since caught the mistake and imported genuine Merlot cuttings, and vineyards have been thriving ever since. Chilean Merlots are typically powerful and fruit-driven. High-end, excellent quality Merlots come from the Apalta region of Colchagua Valley. These wines are comparable to the fruity, bold California varieties.

The first Merlot-growing vineyards in Australia didn’t register until the 1980s, so the country is still a new producer. However, the production of Merlot has expanded enormously in the past 30 years, and Australian vineyards are now impossible to ignore. Australian producers are still determining the best regions for growing Merlot grapes, but dependable regions include McLaren Vale, Barossa Valley, Coonawarra and along the Margaret River. It’s easy to identify Australian variants by their powerful fruit overtones and woody flavors.

Begin with an Oxford Landing Merlot for a bouquet of blueberry, plum and red currants, along with slight cedar, oak and spice undertones. Look for soft tannins and a rich finish in this lovely Merlot.

Because of their lower acidity and pleasant fruity sweetness, Merlots pair excellently with many foods. Unlike heavier red wines that often pair best with red meat, Merlot can be an excellent choice for poultry and pasta dishes. However, different Merlots pair better with different foods, so we’ve grouped our Merlot pairing recommendations into three broad categories: light-bodied, medium-bodied and heavier-bodied blends.
• Light-bodied Merlots go excellently with toasted cheese dishes, such as white and red pizzas, paninis and quesadillas. Softer Merlots are a great complement to pasta and other meals featuring tomato sauce, especially when combined with earthy flavors like mushrooms. A light Merlot can be the perfect red wine to drink in the summer with light meals such as grilled chicken or grilled vegetables like zucchini, peppers and eggplant. Light-bodied Merlots also pair well with charcuterie spreads.
• Medium-bodied Merlots go well with slightly heavier meats such as Italian-style sausages and meatballs. Baked pasta dishes and vegetables are a dependable pairing, along with meatloaf and casseroles. Cheeseburgers are also a perfect match with a medium Merlot. Medium Merlots can also go well with spicier foods like jambalaya and bean dishes. Consider pairing a medium Merlot with seared salmon or dishes with fruit flavors. As long as it does not have too sharp of a flavor, a mild-to-medium hard cheese can go well with a glass of medium-bodied merlot.
• Heavy-bodied or classic Merlots go well with most roasted meats, including lamb or pork. Grilled pork chops prepared with thyme or rosemary can be a lovely partner for a heavy-bodied Merlot. When pairing classic Merlots with meats, make sure to lightly spice the meats, so as not to overwhelm the wine. If opting for a heavier dish or more strongly spiced meal, a Merlot-dominated blend may be the best choice.

While Merlot is delicious on its own, mixing it into wine cocktails can help give it a new twist – and is especially good if you have value priced bottles on hand.

For a classic, warm-weather sangaree, try this recipe with your favorite Merlot.
• If you do not have simple syrup on hand or prefer to make your own from scratch, just combine equal parts hot water and sugar. Stir until all the sugar is dissolved and allow the syrup to cool.
• Placecherriesin a cocktail shaker and gently muddle to break the skins.
• Fill the cocktail shaker with ice,then add your simple syrup, Merlot and bourbon.
• Shakewell and then strain into a glass filled with ice. Serve with a lemon slice.

This apple-brandy-and-gin sangaree is decidedly American and perfect for a cool autumn evening.
• Add all ingredients to a mixing glass and fill with ice.
• Stir untilchilled and well-blended, and then strain into a chilled cocktail glass.

With its softer flavor and fruit-filled profile, Merlot is perfect for red wine enthusiasts and new wine drinkers alike. Curious about the diverse world of Merlot? At Marketview Liquor, we pride ourselves on our wide selection of affordable, high-quality wines. From earthy, cool-climate Bordeaux blends to fruity Napa Valley classics, we have a Merlot for every occasion and to pair with any meal.

Sample Merlots from around the world with our case discount on select merlot wines. Take the stress out of buying wine online — begin your Merlot experience by browsing our selection.When dining in a restaurant, a sommelier, or certified wine specialist, can assist you in selecting a perfect wine, even if you do not know much about wine yourself. By asking about your taste preferences, they can recommend a wine that pairs well with your meal, while complementing your likes and dislikes. But what happens when you’re browsing the shelves or web pages of seemingly endless choices of bottles, wondering how to select a good wine? For those who are not familiar with wine, the label on the bottle or product description — complete with descriptions of flavor notes, characteristics of the wine and origin of the grapes — may only make selecting a bottle even more difficult.

The good news is, understanding some basic information about wine can help you learn more about which wines are likely to be a good fit for you — and which ones you’ll probably want to avoid. By learning about your tastes and the general characteristics of wine, you can become a wine expert in no time and feel confident in selecting a delectable wine to pair with your meal! You can also take our wine pairing quiz and find the perfect wine pairing for your next meal or upcoming special occasion!

Choosing a good wine is completely subjective. How each person defines a good wine is unique to them and their taste buds. Whether you prefer delicate, bold, sweet, tart or even spicy flavors, it is possible to find a wine you adore. These essential characteristics that define each variety of wine can be helpful to keep in mind as you navigate picking a bottle.
• Sweetness: Wine labels often use the terms “sweet,” “semi-sweet” or “dry.” A dry wine will not be sweet at all.
• Acidity: Wines with high acidity will be more tart, whereas low-acidity wines will taste rounder or richer.
• Tannin: Tannins are phenolic compounds in the skins of grapes. When tannins are naturally present in the winemaking process or added through aging, the wine will have a more bitter taste. Because tannins also tend to dry out your mouth, people often confuse the tannin level with the “dryness” of a wine, which actually refers to how sweet or not sweet a wine is. The red winemaking process incorporates more tannins, giving some red wines a distinctively dry and bitter finish.
• Body: Wines get characterized as having a light body, full body or somewhere in between. The “body” of the wine refers to how heavy or light it feels in your mouth. Generally, red wines have a fuller body than whites, as do wines made from grapes grown in warmer regions, rather than cooler ones.
• Alcohol: The higher the percentage of alcohol in your glass of wine, the more it will warm your throat and the back of your mouth. Measured in percentage of alcohol by volume (ABV), most wines contain 11 to 13 percent alcohol, but can range from 5.5 percent all the way up to 20 percent.

Everyone will have different preferences for each of these characteristics of wine, but with the right care, you can find a bottle that fulfills your taste preferences.

Since “good wine” is so subjective, knowing how to choose the right wine means considering several factors — including occasion, flavor preferences, labels and price points. While the combination of these factors is different for each person, the tips below will help anyone in search of that perfect bottle of wine.

1. If you are new to wine, start with a white or rose.

Just as your food preferences evolve as you mature, the wines you enjoy are also likely to change over time. However, a study of consumer palates by Sonoma State University found most people first enjoy a sweet white or rose wine, then later fall in love with dry reds or wines with more distinctive flavors. Fifty-four percent of respondents in the Sonoma State University study said they preferred semi-sweet or sweet white or rose wines when they started drinking wine. While each person’s experience is different, an early distaste for drier wines or wines with high tannins may be due to their unique flavor and sharp bitterness.

If the thought of drinking a sweet wine makes you cringe, that doesn’t necessarily mean you should jump to reds. Instead, opt for a dry white or rose. Beginning with a lighter-bodied wine can be a step to learning to enjoy a variety of wines.

2. Reflect on other flavors you enjoy.

Wine flavors are unique, but that doesn’t mean the flavors you enjoy in other drinks and food don’t influence what you’ll consider a good wine. On the contrary, your other taste preferences can be a great identifier of which wine you will enjoy. For example, if you have a sweet tooth, chances are you will enjoy a sweeter wine like Caposaldo and Primo Amore Moscato. If you thrive on the sharpness of bitter black coffee, a more acidic wine may be perfect for you. It can be that simple. Here are two questions to help get you started:
• Do you prefer apple juice or grapefruit juice? Apple juice lovers are more likely to enjoy sweet white wine, while grapefruit juice enthusiasts will likely find their match in dry white wine.
• Does your favorite dose of caffeine come in the form of a latte or black coffee? Black coffee drinkers are more likely to fall for an Old World wine — that is, wine that comes from one of the places where winemaking first began, such as France, Italy or Spain. If you prefer a latte, try a New World wine, such as something from the United States, Australia or South Africa.

Are you selecting a wine for yourself to enjoy, or are you sharing with friends? Will you be pairing your wine with a meal or using it to prepare a recipe? Wines can serve different purposes, and different occasions can influence how you choose a wine. Here are a few questions to ask yourself when shopping for a bottle of wine:
• Are you searching for a crowd-pleaser? If you want to satisfy your friends or family, and pairing with food isn’t your primary objective, consider picking up a bottle of white and a bottle of red. Since wine preferences are so subjective, having one of each will cover plenty of palates. You can also opt for wines that fall closer to the middle of the spectrum on sweetness, acidity and body. More balanced or moderate flavors are likely to appeal to more of your guests.
• Are you pairing with a meal? If you want to find a wine that complements your carefully crafted dinner, the general rule of thumb is white wines for lighter dishes, like chicken and fish, and red wines for heavier dishes, like beef and lamb. Read on for more specific ways to pick the perfect wine for your meal.
• Will you be mixing the wine or drinking it on its own? If you are mixing your wine into a cocktail or summer sangria, the subtle flavors of the wine aren’t as important. If you are using your wine in a recipe, the flavors will blend into the sauce or meat and serve as an accent. Consider choosing a less expensive bottle of wine when you are mixing a cocktail or cooking with it. If you plan to enjoy your wine on its own, you can be more critical in selecting flavor notes you will enjoy.

4. Be sure to read the label— and learn what you’re reading.

Eye-catching illustrations, pretty fonts or a clever name can sometimes sway a person into purchasing a wine that may not be the best choice, especially when all the options seem overwhelming. However, it is essential to read the label, rather than just admiring it. While all the information may seem daunting, reading a wine bottle label can be fairly simple when you know what to look for, and you don’t need to know the precise definitions of all of the words on the label, either. First, look for the amount of information the label has listed — does it seem like there’s quite a bit of specific information about the region, valley and grapes? The general rule of thumb is the more details, the better.

Next, know what you’re looking at on the label. You will find the winery name, a variety of grape, the year the winery harvested the grapes, the region where the grapes grew, the alcohol percentage and, on the back, a description of the wine. Refer back to the definitions of those five basic characteristics: sweetness, acidity, tannin, body and alcohol. If you understand those, the wine descriptions will be much easier to decipher. The description of the wine may also list notes or aromas that will include familiar flavors, such as citrus, black cherry, apple, plum or chocolate. If you enjoy the flavors in the description, there is a good chance you will enjoy the wine.

While the information on wine labels is fairly standard, it may not always be in the same place. More prominent wineries may list the name front and center on the bottle. Other bottles may show the variety of grape in the center, with the name of the vineyard in smaller text at the top or bottom. The more you familiar you become with reading wine labels, the easier it will be to find the information you are looking for.

When vineyards harvest grapes, their very best, fully matured grapes go into the primary batch of wine, which they call their “first label.” These wines are often the ones connoisseurs praise, and overwhelmingly have two qualities in common — they are often available in limited quantities and, therefore, can be very expensive. Your search for amazing wine may lead you to some of the big-name vineyards, and rightly so. However, if you are just getting started and aren’t confident in what wines you enjoy, the price tag can be tough to justify. That is when second-label wines can be a great alternative to pricey first-label bottles.

As a vineyard pursues perfection in winemaking, they become more selective in the grapes they use for their first label. In this case, more grapes that may not be as mature or polished don’t make the cut. Rather than selling these grapes or disposing of them, the vineyard will often put them through a winemaking process that is nearly identical to the first label, but sell it under another name, or a second label. Because these wines come from the same expert vineyards, these second labels will still give you a taste of high-quality wine, but at a fraction of the price.

If you are familiar with some of the big-name wineries, you can usually spot a second label, as it will incorporate some part of their winery name. Some brief research can also point you in the right direction for finding a notable second label to try. Second labels are an excellent choice for budding wine enthusiasts, as they will help you decide which more expensive wines you want to splurge on in the future.

6. Don’t stress over the age of the wine.

While it’s a common perception that older is better when it comes to wine, this is not the case. Only some wines taste better with age, and different wines are best after different aging periods. Properly aging wine depends on many factors, including the region the wine is from and the amounts of tannins, sugars and acids it contains. In general, aging is more important for red wines than white wines, but any wine you purchase at the store will be ready to drink. In fact, most wines are not meant to be aged, and you should consume them within five years of purchasing them. However, if there’s ever a time to take a close look at the year on the bottle, it’s for red wines. If you’re looking for how to choose a good red wine and find yourself stuck between two different years of a variety, you may want to opt for the older.

If the wine is on sale, it is likely because it is not in season or it has been sitting in the store’s inventory for a while. These reasons do not mean the wine is of lower quality or won’t still taste great if it is a type of wine you enjoy. These discounts can even be a great opportunity to find a good deal on wine. Choosing an expensive wine for its price point may also lead you astray — a more expensive bottle of wine does not always mean it is going to be a better bottle of wine. When selecting the wine you want to buy, start with the flavors and characteristics you prefer, as well as the occasion, then allow price to be a secondary consideration.

While wine bottles with screw caps can get a bad reputation, they can still hold delicious wine. These caps are for bottles of wine to be consumed in the same year — due to freshness and acidity. So, if you are interested in a wine without a cork, don’t be afraid to take a sip. Screw caps can also be more convenient for occasions such as a picnic, where you might forget to bring a wine opener, and are easier to pack up and take home after an evening out.

9. Keep track of the wines you try.

Once you’ve made your purchase, be sure to make a note of the name of the wine, the region and the variety of grapes. Many wine apps for your smartphone allow you to record your perception of a particular wine. As we have said from the start, finding a “good wine” is really about what you prefer, so tracking what you like and dislike will help you pick better and better wines for you! Keeping these notes handy on your phone also means they are sure to be with you the next time you make a purchase.

Whether you love or hate the wine you try, you’ll have a handy list of great or not-so-great wine purchases you’ve made. When you find a wine you enjoy, go for something similar next time. Try the same region, but a different variety of grapes, or vice versa. Soon, you’ll begin to get a feel for exactly what your preferences are, and choosing a good bottle of wine will be easy.

10. Every once in a while, try a new variety of grape.

While your wine notes will be valuable in teaching you more about the kind of wines you enjoy, it’s important to branch out now and then. As you try more wines, your tastes may change, but without experimenting occasionally, you might miss out on your new favorite wine. When opting for something new, consider moving to the next step in Sonoma State University’s “Wine Palate Life Cycle Wheel” we mentioned earlier. Wine Folly also has a humorous article on the “Evolution of Your Wine Palate” that can direct you on your next step of wine-drinking.

How to Pick out Wine for Dinner

The tips above will provide a great start to establishing your taste in good wine. However, sometimes you aren’t looking for how to choose good wine, but rather how to pick the right wine for a particular meal. A great wine may not always shine in tandem with the wrong food. When it comes to wine pairing, you can revisit the basic characteristics of wine — sweetness, acidity, tannin, body and alcohol — and apply them to pairing.

The overall goal of choosing wine for dinner is to find a wine that either complements or contrasts the flavors. A good wine pairing will give you a more complex burst of flavor from your dining and drinking experience. Here are a few general guidelines for the best wine and food pairings.

If you choose wine with low acidity to pair with a meal that has higher acidity, such as meals with citrus or fish, you’re sure to be disappointed. The acidity in the food will overpower the wine, leaving your taste buds with much to be desired. In this case, it’s best to find a higher-acidity wine to match your meal.

2. Salty food is the perfect partner for sweet wine.

The combination of salty and sweet is a classic that carries into the wine-pairing world, too. A sweet wine can help cut the saltiness of a dish, while also highlighting the pleasant sweetness of the wine.

If you’re indulging in a fatty dish, the good news is you have plenty of choices when it comes to how to pick a bottle of wine. The first pairing, found in bitter wines, is the classic combination of steak and dry red wine. The second match, fatty foods with high-acidity wines, is the reason beurre blanc — white wine butter sauce — is so popular. The acidity in the wine cuts through the fat. This pairing is also helpful when selecting an after-dinner wine to enjoy with dessert — a rich, fatty cheesecake is the perfect match for a high-acidity wine. The same flavor sensations occur in the final pairing of fatty foods with wines with higher alcohol content. Consider high-alcohol wines with caution, and only pair them with rich desserts or dinners to savor at a slow pace. Choosing a wine with a high alcohol content and taking a drink between every bite is going to leave you feeling loopy.

4. Foods and wines from the same region can make great pairings.

In addition to characteristics of the wine and food, another way to make a great pairing is through choosing wines that originate from the same region as the dish you are preparing. Regional pairings aren’t always successful, but for the most part, food and wines that grow together often taste great together. For example, when preparing a traditional Italian dish, consider pairing it with Italian wine that has complementary characteristics.

Now that you have reflected on the flavors you enjoy and characteristics of wine you desire, the trick is finding the right wine to provide those features. You know what flavor of wine you want, but where do you find it? Below are eight common types of wine, organized from light and sweet to full-bodied and savory. We’ve included a brief description of characteristics and common food pairings for each to get you started on your journey to becoming a wine lover.
• Light to medium-bodied white wine with lots of fruit flavors, moderate sweetness and high acidity
• Pairs well with chicken, pork, duck, turkey, cured meat and many Thai, Indian, Moroccan, Vietnamese and German dishes
• Light-bodied white wine with mid-level acidity and subtly sweet fruit and floral flavors
• Pairs with salads, poached fish and light or mild cheeses
• Light to medium-bodied white wine with lots of citrus fruit flavors and a high level of acidity
• Pairs well with fish, chicken, pork, veal, herb-crusted or nutty cheeses and many Mexican, Vietnamese and French dishes
• Medium to full-bodied white wine with plenty of yellow fruit flavors and mid-level acidity
• Pairs well with shrimp, crab, lobster, chicken, pork, mushrooms, cream sauces, soft or nutty cheeses and many French dishes
• Light-bodied red wine with fewer tannins and higher levels of acidity and red fruit flavors
• Pairs well with chicken, pork, veal, duck, cured meats, soft or nutty cheeses, cream sauces and many French and German dishes
• Medium to full-bodied red wine with a higher level of fruit flavors and low acidity
• Pairs well with chicken, pork, cured meat, lamb, beef, barbecue and many Italian, American, Chinese, Indian and Thai dishes
• Full-bodied red wine with a moderate level of tannins with higher fruit flavors and acidity
• Pairs well with beef, lamb, smoked meats, white cheddar cheese and many Mediterranean, French and American dishes
• Full-bodied red wine, usually with a high level of tannins and alcohol
• Pairs well with beef, lamb, smoked meats, aged cheddar cheese and many French and American dishes

How to Choose a Bottle of Wine at Marketview Liquor

Now that you know more about how to choose a wine for dinner, shop Marketview Liquor’s delicious selection of wines! With a range of prices from discount cases and free shipping for select wines available, you can experiment with a new variety or invest in a wine you know you will enjoy.

Our resources can help you choose a good wine, whether you visit our store in Rochester, N.Y., or decide to order online. Check out “Mike’s Picks” in our weekly ads, on our website and in our store. You can also check out video tastings on our blog — “Wine Time with Mike and Holly” — to give you more specifics about any of our featured wines.

We’ve categorized our online selection so you can easily sort by country, region and type of wine — so you can select a wine you want to start with and quickly find a similar wine when you need a new bottle. Get started by browsing our online wine selection.According to the Court of Master Sommeliers — the world’s most elite group of veteran wine experts for 50 years — there are nearly two dozen types of wine glasses available for serving wine today.

That’s a lot of cabinet space dedicated to wine glasses! It’s little surprise if you’ve recently browsed the dishware section of a home goods store. There are wide glasses and short glasses, tall and slender glasses — even funny-shaped glasses with special curved rims.

What are the different types of wine glasses, and why do they come in different shapes and sizes? Plus, does it matter which kind you use to serve wine, anyway?

Keep reading to explore our complete guide to the kinds of wine glasses and their uses, as well as the various wine glass shapes and purposes.

Wine glasses’ shapes create the optimal tasting and olfactory conditions for specific types of wine.

Given the sheer diversity of red and white wines, this makes sense. A glass’ shape will allow aromas to escape while you sip, which is necessary to experience the true nature of the wine. Likewise, wine glass shapes will then determine where sips land on your tongue. Some slide straight to the tip of your tongue, while others hit the middle or roof of your mouth, therefore eliciting different flavor responses.

In short, there’s a science to glass shapes — all designed to give you the best-tasting beverage possible.

What Are the Benefits of Matching Wine Glass With Wine Type?

Matching the appropriate wine glasses with the types of wine you are serving ensures the best possible tasting experience for you and your guests. That’s because the design of glasses for red, white, rosé or sparkling wine each highlight the following.
• Correctly aerated wine: Certain types of wine — particularly tannin-heavy, bold reds like Barbera, cabernet sauvignon and others — need exposure to the air before serving. This aeration step allows the wine to “breathe,” literally oxidizing particular chemical compounds to unearth the full expression of its unique flavors. While it is best to aerate wines in a separate decanter, you can also use a large, varietal-correct wine glass as an aerating vehicle.
• Full bouquet and nose: As mentioned earlier, a proper white or red glass permits appropriate wine aromas to escape. This sense of smell is instrumental in tasting. Without these wafting aromas and bouquets, you won’t be able to savor a glass of wine’s authentic, fully developed flavors.
• Appropriate temperature: Every wine varietal has an ideal serving temperature. As your general rule, it’s best to serve white wines chilled or semi-chilled, between 49 and 55 degrees Fahrenheit. You’ll want to serve red wines at room temperature, between 62 and 68 degrees Fahrenheit. Depending on the stem type and shape, a drinker’s hand may envelop the entire glass, causing heat to transfer and raising its temperature above ideal serving conditions. This action, in turn, creates muddled or dulled flavors.
• Aesthetic appeal: Let’s be real — it’s fun to use pretty wine glasses. It’s even more fun to have a set of two to three types of wine glasses adorning your home bar cart or party drink station. Regardless of the situation, or what varietals of wine your friends bring over, you’ll have an attractive, yet functional, set ready to go.
• Optimal sips: When aeration, aroma, temperature and presentation come together, you’ll bring wine tasting to the next level.

The Anatomy of All Wine Glasses

There are four primary design characteristics associated with wine glasses.
• The rim: Wine glass rims are the topmost section of the glass, or the part that comes into contact with your lips as you drink. For this reason, you’ll often hear the rim called the “mouth” of a glass. Thickness is the defining quality of wine rims. The thinner the rim, the easier and smoother wine sips.
• The bowl: Wine glass bowls are the basin portion you pour the wine into. The wider the bowl, the easier it is to swirl your wine between and before sips. Swirling your wine releases nuanced aromas that may hide in a static beverage, therefore unleashing a more complex taste. Generally, red wine glasses will have wider rims than most white wine glassware.
• The stem: Stems are the long, thin part of the glass drinkers hold without having to touch the bowl. Holding a glass by its stem preserves the wine’s serving temperature for the best possible tasting beverage.
• The foot: The foot of a wine glass is the circular base allowing the dishware to stand upright. The majority of wine glass types have this circular foot at the end of the stem. However, some, like the stemless tumbler, do not.

These four terms provide the basis for discussing different shapes of wine glasses. Together, the rim, bowl, stem and foot affect how a wine swirls and sips, as well as its temperature regulation and the aromas we smell while drinking. These four parts are fundamental to understanding the reason for wine glass shapes, as well as what kind of glass to pick when serving wine.

General Overview of the Different Types of Wine Glasses

Today, there are dozens of wine glassware available to show off at your next dinner party — or when savoring a glass by yourself. Let’s explore the top wine glass types below, each with distinct design elements coaxing the best from this drink.

The Bordeaux wine glass is the perfect foundation to begin profiling the world of wine glassware. Proportionate, but taller than any other glass on our list, Bordeaux glasses have a comparatively longer stem and leaner, thinner bowl. The smaller, but longer, bowl lets wine travel directly to the back of your tongue. This shape is ideal for rich, full-bodied and mouth-coating red wines, which may taste too sharp if they coat your entire tongue at once.

Burgundy glasses carry similar proportions to the Bordeaux glass, yet contain a wider bowl. This fuller bowl is Burgundy’s signature characteristic, as well as a slightly shorter glass stem. These dimensions make room for softer, more fragrant and delicate red wines to shine. The wide bowl and easy-to-grasp stem allow drinkers to easily swirl their wine, unleashing flavors and aromas that may hide within lean glassware. The bowl’s slope also means the wine will first hit the tip of your tongue before traveling to other areas, again leaving more room to highlight a wine’s more nuanced palates.

Cabernet glasses are designed to focus and highlight the aromas of its wine. Wide, Burgundy-style bowls slope narrowly upward to create a small, tight rim without much room for natural air passage. Drinkers using a cabernet glass, therefore, experience a wine’s concentrated aromas first and foremost. The wide bowl still ensures proper aeration of its contents, with sips and smells funneled through the narrow mouth. Together, these features create a glassware type ideal for red wines with lots of sharp, bold tannins, which will soften in the breathable bowl, but still produce that signature mouth-drying sensation upon reaching the tongue.

Pinot noir-style glasses are one of the most unique on this list. Among its key features are a wide, generous bowl and flared lips — in other words, a rim turned out slightly from the glass rather than smooth and straight. These flared rims often give away this style of Pinot noir wine glasses, and make them one of the most visually distinct in your collection.

The wide bowl lets smoother reds gain the oxygen needed to amplify its subtler flavors, while the flared lips magnify its soft aromas and carry the wine to the middle of your mouth.

Red zinfandel wines are a light-bodied, highly acidic varietal, creating a lush, bright and fragrant flavor profile. As a result, zinfandel wine requires a glass that nurtures these aromas, while also moderating its typically high alcohol bite — Zinfandel can range up to 17% ABV!

Unlike many other red wines, zinfandel also doesn’t need aeration before serving. That means glassware with smaller, leaner bowls are perfect for this red varietal. Overall, aim for zinfandel glassware that’s slightly shorter than other red wine glasses, with a slim bowl and average-sized rim.

Consider Shiraz glasses a cousin to the cabernet. Like its cab comrade, shiraz glassware contains a wide, oxygen-trapping bowl and a tapered, slim rim funneling the beverage to the middle of your mouth. Sips from a shiraz glass balance the sharp tannins innate to the varietal sharing its name, while pushing concentrated fruit notes forward. Together, these features provide a more complex and well-rounded drinking experience for this full-bodied, dense red wine type that can be overpowering — even astringent — when mistreated.

Port wine is a type of dessert wine containing additional alcohol, typically in the form of fortified spirits. It gets its name from its homeland of Portugal, where this sweet beverage is a popular post-dinner aperitif. Given port’s fortification and heavy, dessert-like palate, port wine glasses are shorter and stouter than other glassware. A proper port serving is three ounces, compared to the five- to six-ounce pours that are common for red and white wine. Glassware dedicated to port is a miniature version of the Bordeaux glass, with a smaller bowl proportionate to a small rim.

Sherry glasses are the smallest type on this wine glassware guide. Sherry glasses, designed specifically for the Spanish fortified wine carrying the same name, have a tiny, evenly proportioned bowl and a long stem, plus a small mouth. These glasses’ stems are so long that they’re the same size as the rest of the body. This length keeps drinkers’ hands out of the way as they sip, maintaining optimal temperatures for the sweet dessert wine held within.

You’ll often hear chardonnay glassware referred to as the “universal” white wine glass. Its all-purpose design runs similar to the pinot noir glass, meaning it centers on a wide bowl and a tapered, more concentrated rim. However, chardonnay glasses do not have flared lips, maintaining that classic U-shaped design resting on a medium-length stem. Chardonnay glasses will also be smaller in stature overall.

Chardonnay glassware is well-known for creating even, flavorful sips balancing earthy and fruity notes on the sides and tip of your tongue. It’s an excellent place to begin building your stemware collection, providing a versatile vehicle, particularly for dry white wines.

Riesling wine receives accolades for its acidic, perfumed qualities, presenting a particularly aromatic white wine. Its namesake glass comes designed to enhance those very characteristics. You’ll find riesling glassware slimmer and taller than chardonnay glasses, with a lean bowl reducing the amount of oxygen swirling in its contents. Too much aeration can detract from riesling’s naturally floral bouquet. The best-designed riesling glassware pushes sips to the back of your mouth, where they won’t overpower your taste buds with fruit-forward sweetness.

Sauvignon blanc glasses are tall and narrow, with a slightly leaner bowl concentrating a white wine’s fruity flavors. The slim bowl runs proportionate to its topmost rim, which slants delicately inward to funnel fruit flavors and aromas to the nose and front of the mouth.

Originally designed to enhance the vibrant lime, nectarine, kiwi and passion fruit flavors in its namesake sauvignon blanc wine, this glass type also helps preserve many varietals’ natural acidity and minerality. Indeed, the glass’ shape moves wine immediately to the front and top of the mouth, which keeps acidity sharp and uplifting, rather than muddling it in the less sensitive rear of the tongue.

Rose glasses — pronounced like the flower, not the wine type — come in two forms: flared and unflared. Flared lips curve outward along the rim, compared to unflared, which maintains the classic U-shaped glass design. Both flared and unflared rose glasses come with short, stout bowls and a long stem, shielding contents from your hand’s natural warmth.

Select a flared rose glass when drinking a younger or unoaked wine. Young Rose wines, in particular, tend to have a less developed sweetness to them. Drinking from flared edges directs wine straight to the more sensitive parts along the edges and tip of your tongue, increasing the delivery of complex flavors.

Also known as the coupe or vintage glass, saucers are one of the oldest styles of glassware still available today. Sipping drinks in a saucer sends immediate flashbacks to the Roaring ’20s, when this beverage vehicle first came into prominence. Think a shallow, circular bowl leading to a flat, low and generously sized rim keeping contents well aerated.

Many chastise coupes and saucer-style glassware for providing style, but no substance. Their signature wide rims and shallow bowls may over-aerate, dissipating a beverage’s natural bubbles and bouquets.

Flutes are the quintessential glassware for all things bubbly. These slim, narrow glasses hold contents in a lean bowl, eschewing the traditional U-shaped design for a tall, slender glass with an equally long stem. The upright build retains carbonation better than any other glassware and is why flutes are the best choice for drinking fizzy champagne.

The slender flute also works like a charm for transferring delicate flavors straight to the tip of your tongue. It will enhance even young bottles of bubbly, though can mute more mature wines.

Tulip glasses embody many of the same traits as a flute, namely the tall stem and slender body. However, whereas flutes stand upright and linear, the tulip glasses contain a bulged bowl that narrows once again before reaching the rim. This design creates its signature tulip profile, mirroring the popular flower.

The glass’s curved shape still encourages carbonation to rise to the mouth continually. However, the wider bowl provides more oxygen, coaxing added nuanced flavors and aromas from its contents. For this reason, tulip-style glasses are best for aged or more mature “vintage” champagne bottles.

As its name suggests, stemless glasses remove the long-handled stem of traditional wine glasses. Instead, drinkers hold their glassware around its bowl. It’s a versatile and aesthetic choice for red, white and rosé wine, though not ideal for sparkling.

Many enjoy stemless glasses for their contemporary appearance. This style of wine glass is also easier to wash, as well as less prone to spills or tipping over. However, cons to stemless glasses are a natural byproduct of its design: Drinkers steadily transfer heat every time they clutch their glass, potentially altering the taste of their drink.

Decanters are large pouring glasses used to aerate wine. Traditionally, you would open a bottle of wine and immediately pour it into a decanter. The decanter’s broad, roomy bowl then serves to allow steady streams of oxygen to open up and soften robust, tannin-heavy wines, enriching their final flavor.

Not all varietals require a decanter. You can detract from the taste of some red and white wine types alike if you aerate them in a secondary glass. Think mellow, lighter-bodied reds like Beaujolais, pinot noir, red zinfandel, Dolcetto and red Burgundy, as well as any white wine served chilled. None of these require pouring into a decanter.

Which Wine Glass for Which Type of Wine?

When considering wine glass shapes and uses, generally speaking, serving red wine calls for larger glassware with wider bowls and narrow, tapered rims. Conversely, white wines and rosés tend to do best in U-shaped glasses with proportionately slim bowls and rims.

Rather than worrying about owning a different type of glass for every wine varietal, though, consider stocking different shaped glasses for each of the four major wine types. And hey, if you don’t enjoy one of the four types, you have even less to worry about!
• Wine glasses for red wine: Aim for glassware with taller stems, generous bowls and a slight-to-medium inward taper at the rim. That inward slant prevents red wine’s stronger tannins from assailing your nose with every sip.
• Wine glasses for white and rosé wine: Opt for glassware that is smaller, lighter, upright and traditionally U-shaped, preventing too much aeration from dulling any delicate flavors.
• Wine glasses for sparkling wine: Select tall, slender and straight stemware like flutes and tulips for bubbly-ready special occasions.

Keep reading for the exact proper wine glass pairings for your favorite types of wine — then, finally, invite that special someone over you’ve been meaning to impress.

There are hundreds of red wine grape varietals cultivated around the world. That figure doesn’t account for the specialty mixtures crafted by winemakers looking to coax new, exciting red wine blends melding complementary varietal textures, aromas and flavors.

Given the sheer number of red wine grapes grown today, it can be confusing to pair specific varietals with an ideal glass. Explore the specific wine glassware listed below to see how you should serve your favorite type of red wine.

A cabernet glass’ large bowl and narrow rim is the ideal portal allowing big, bold red wine to be its best self.

With this design, a wine’s natural fragrances accumulate at the top of the glass. Every time someone goes to take a drink from their glassware, they get an expressive burst of primary and secondary aromas alongside wine correctly aerated in the large bowl. The result allows full-bodied, high-tannin wines to be lush, robust and complex without going overboard.

Select Burgundy glasses for smoother, silkier red wines or wines with more delicate flavor profiles. The glassware’s generous bowl but narrow, tapered lip accumulates as much of the glass’ bouquet as possible, amplifying every taste. Meanwhile, Burgundy’s thin lips maintain the velvet mouthfeels innate to a handful of red wine varietals that you don’t want to muddle using other vehicles.

If you haven’t caught on yet, many types of wine glasses pair exceptionally well with their namesake varietal. And this is not a coincidence. As winemakers over the decades have better understood the unique chemical compositions making up wine grape varietals, they’ve designed glasses to exclusively — and exceptionally — optimize their grapes.

Bordeaux glassware is no exception. One of the proverbial homes of dozens of red and white wine varietals, Bordeaux, France, has made an art out of wine drinking. Bordeaux wine glass designs reflect that treasured history, offering the tallest glass on the list, a signature large bowl and slightly narrowed lip perfect for a range of medium and full-bodied reds.

Pinot noir glasses are quite similar to Burgundy glassware. Indeed, the two are almost interchangeable when it comes to serving a handful of lighter-bodied red wines, including pinot noir itself.

However, the pinot noir wine glass deserves a place at the table when introducing red wines to new drinkers, especially for someone leery of red wine being too harsh or astringent. Selecting a glass that will enhance the lightness and silkiness of their drink, exactly like pinot noir glassware, can transform their preconceived expectations.

Shiraz glassware has a similar shape to cabernet glasses. Both these wine glass types seek to soften and balance the heavy and tannin-forward wines sharing their names. As such, Shiraz wine glass shapes trap oxygen in their wide bowl, then gently pull flavors forward between sips across their narrower opening.

Bright, zippy and tart, red zinfandel is a unique varietal requiring an equally unique glass shape. Its equally proportioned, medium-sized glass means sips coat the tongue evenly and contributes a vibrant overall flavor, exactly what you’re looking for in a quality red zinfandel. Pour into this type of wine glass immediately after opening a new bottle, no decanting required.

Serve fermented wines like port in smaller, three-ounce portions inside glasses shaped to minimize strong, harsh alcohol scents. Port glasses, in particular, offer a tight, narrow mouth with thicker lips to encourage savoring the beverage while discerning concentrated aromas, but still a large enough bowl to gently swirl your contents.
• Ideal wines for port glasses: Any port wine, including white, ruby, tawny and rosé

The Right Glasses for White Wine and Rosé

Just like specific red wines pair best with particular glasses, consider matching your favorite white wines and rosés to the stemware below.

With their classic U-shaped bowl and tapered, thin lips, chardonnay glasses are ideal for full-bodied white wines. This shape glides sips easily from the tip through the back of the mouth, ensuring you pick up on every sweet, acidic and mineral note in your white wine.

Riesling wine glassware is small and lean, featuring a narrower rim keeping wine away from the tip of your tongue, where its namesake varietal would bombard sweet sensors. Choose this more delicate glass type when drinking bright, fruity and refreshingly acidic wines like any of the following.

Sauvignon blanc continues to be one of the most popular white wine varietals in the world. Its namesake glass runs slightly taller than most other white wine glasses, with a slender bowl and lean lips concentrating all the earthy, mineral and fruit notes famous in sauvignon blanc. It’s an excellent selection when drinking more delicate or complexly layered white wines, since its shape comes designed explicitly to present a full palate with every drink.

Rose-shaped glasses, with their delicately flared lips, add texture and tang when drinking a range of red, white or rosé wine. These are versatile pieces best used on younger, unoaked wines to experience their full, bright sweetness.

Sparkling wine’s carbonation requires a specially designed glass that will preserve and encourage its innate fizziness. For that, there’s no better glassware than flutes and tulips — though don’t count the elegant coupe out of the race just yet.

Flute glassware makes any occasion feel immediately sophisticated. From brunch with friends to graduation parties to a night in sharing a bottle with a special someone, use flutes to preserve sparkling wines’ carbonation. Maintaining your beverage’s natural bubbles also ensures its flavors remain lively and crisp. After all, what fun is flat bubbly?

Tulip glasses are often rounder, yet slimmer, than flutes, owing to their resemblance to the tulip flower bud. It’s a unique and elegant design ideal for mature, or “vintage,” champagne and higher-end sparkling varietals.

The tulip glass’ small, rounded bulge traps just enough oxygen for richer sparkling wines to unleash full profiles. At the same time, the slender lips direct sips immediately to the tip of the tongue for drinkers to capture a wine’s nuances and complexities.
• Ideal wines for tulip glassware: Vintage champagne (Premier Cru and Grand Cru), Franciacorta, Asti (sparkling Italian wine from Piedmont)

Coupes have largely fallen out of favor for events where sparkling wines and vintage champagne are the stars of the drink menu. Their wide, shallow bowls tend to invite too much oxygen to mix with the contents, delineating a sparkling wine’s crisp aromas and reducing its bubbles. As a result, sparkling wine can quickly fall flat.

However, its aesthetics and history do make this glassware appealing for some themed parties. What’s more, coupe/saucer-style wine glasses can be a fitting design for sparkling-wine based as well as classic cocktails. Their wide base is a benefit, not a drawback, harmonizing all the flavors of a mixed drink and allowing sips to coat a larger portion of the mouth.
• Ideal drinks for saucer/coupe glassware: Themed cocktails, some Prosecco and Cava

Other Types of Wine Glass Uses and Purposes

For specialty wines or memorable occasions, consider bringing out these different pieces of glassware for the best possible wine-tasting experience.
• Sherry glass: Sherry wine’s fortification makes it hold a dense, even syrupy mouthfeel. Like red and white wines, there are many types of sherries ranging in flavors, bodies, aromas and ABVs, giving you a world of options to explore. Plus, with sherry seeing a resurgence due to waves of sherry-touting famous mixologists, you’ll score style points presenting this spirit at your next party or get-together. Use the small and triangular sherry glass for serving any sweet, dry and off-dry sherries, as well as cordials and similar dessert spirits.
• Stemless: Stemless glasses are a safer, less spill-prone type of wine glassware currently in vogue for serving all sorts of beverages, not just wine. Their simple U-shaped profile and average rim size give it a Goldilocks appeal for medium-bodied, sweet and savory-leaning wines. Just watch out for over-warming your glass with your hand. Stemless wine glasses are ideal for drinking varietals like pinot grigio, sauvignon blanc, merlot, Sangiovese, Negroamaro and cabernet franc.
• Balloon glass: Balloon glassware emphasizes a rounded, generously sized bowl atop a tall stem for the express purpose of swirling tannin-heavy wines. The width and depth of the bowl aerate bold reds and heavier, oakier whites such as Semillon and oaked chardonnay, while its large mouth emits fragrant bouquets for the drinker to take in with their sips. Balloon glasses’ tall stems and wide bowls additionally preserve a wine’s serving temperature. Consider purchasing balloon glassware when you regularly find yourself trying different full-bodied, heavy and oaky wines. Its size and scale make it adaptive to varietals with these characteristics without pigeonholing you into a more specific red or white glass set.

Investing in the right glassware to amplify the flavors of your favorite wines is essential. There are other details to consider when stocking your bar cart with wine ware, as well — details that save you time, space and money.
• Storage space: Let’s be honest. It’s unreasonable to possess all types of wine glasses specially shaped to enhance every varietal. You’d need an entire wall of cabinets dedicated exclusively to your collection! Instead, pick two to three glass types made to complement the experience of enjoying your favorite wines. If wine is a casual, rather than go-to, drink in your home, opt for the most versatile glass shapes — one for red and one for white.
• Glass versus crystal: The majority of wine glasses are either glass or crystal. While cost or aesthetic preference will guide which of these materials you prefer, it’s also worth noting you must carefully hand-wash fine crystal. Comparatively, most glass stemware can go in the top rack of home dishwashers. Always check the manufacturer’s or maker’s recommendations to be safe.
• Budget: Bargain hunters can shop for stemware sets containing a few types of versatile wine glasses — typically one type for red, one type for white and one for sparkling. When budget is your biggest concern, stick with these pre-packaged sets meant for a broad range of wines, rather than spiraling into the nitty-gritty. Over time, you can add more exact pieces.

From full-bodied reds to light and fruity whites, a wide number of wines brings the need for many different types of glasses. Whether you’re an experienced wine drinker or a casual sipper, choosing the right glass can take your tasting experience to the next level.

At the most basic level, there are two types of wine glasses — stemmed and stemless. A stemmed wine glass comprises a base, stem and bowl.

Stemless glasses differ in their wine glass aesthetic and do not feature a base or stem. Instead, these glasses have a bowl with a flat bottom to sit evenly on a table.

While parts will vary between glasses, the bowl’s shape and style are most important for the type of wine you want to enjoy.

Glassware for red wine is generally oversized in height and has a more significant bowl size than white wine to allow more oxygen to come into contact with the drink. Some examples of red wine glasses include:

White wine is best served in glasses that are smaller in height and bowl size than red wine glasses. This smaller size enables the wine to be closer to your nose so you can detect the lighter aromas. Some white wine glasses include:

Glasses for champagne and sparkling wines are typically smaller and narrower in shape to help preserve carbonation and flavor. A slim wine glass shape also aids in directing carbonation to your tongue instead of your nose. Sparkling wine glasses include flute, saucer and tulip-shaped glasses.

When it comes to glasses for rosè and blush wine, you can choose between flared and tapered rims. Flared-rimmed glasses can enhance the sweetness of young rosè, while tapered-rimmed glasses work well with mature rosè.

Dessert wines are typically super-sweet and highly concentrated, requiring a short and unique design that directs your drink to specific taste buds. A dessert wine glass aims to encourage drinkers to savor their wine and immerse themselves in the flavors. Dessert wine glasses are typically available in a port or sherry glass option.

If you have limited options for drinkware, universal or all-purpose glasses are great for enjoying the best features of red and white wine. Universal glasses can be stemmed or stemless and provide similar tasting experiences.

Find the Perfect Bottle of Wine for Your Glass at Marketview Liquor

Pair your favorite glass with a delicious bottle of wine from Marketview Liquor. We offer a wide selection of reds, whites and every shade of blush in between. Buy online by the case or bottle today!

Ready to put your new knowledge about different wine glass shapes to the test? Marketview Liquor has a wide selection of wines you can browse online and have shipped right to your door. Don’t forget to bring your new glassware! Take our Wine Pairing Quiz to pair your wine perfectly for your next occasion.The more you’re able to spend on wine, the better quality you’re likely to get. However, you don’t have to pay $100 to get a great bottle of wine. If you have $30 to spend, you can get a great bottle of wine — and maybe even have a few bucks to spare.

Top Five Recommended Wines for Under $30

There’s nothing like a highly rated wine under $30. Here are some of the best wines that won’t break the bank.

Pinot noir pairs well with a variety of foods for any meal and is considered the world’s most beloved light-bodied red wine. While more tannic versions go well with duck, stews and casseroles, fruity varieties make an excellent match for pasta dishes, roasted chicken, salmon and other fatty fish.

Pinot noir is known for being a lighter-bodied wine overall, but you may also find a few more complex, bold and medium-bodied versions. You’ll love this affordable wine for its flower, red fruit and spice aromas that are highlighted by a smooth finish.

Generally, merlot is an excellent match for lightly spiced dark meats and light meats such as chicken. Juicy merlot wines pair well with roasted vegetables. With not too much acidity and medium tannin, you’ll find merlot is one of the most versatile, low-cost wines for your kitchen.

Merlots are best served at 60 to 65 degrees Fahrenheit. Since most reds are not sold chilled, you’ll need to refrigerate yours at home. The bottle will be slightly cool to the touch when it reaches the right temperature.

Dry riesling is an ideal wine for meals featuring chicken, seafood and vegetarian dishes with little to no sauce. It also makes a fantastic pairing alongside an array of fried or spicy foods to balance complex food flavors with its layered, rich fruit and mineral profile. You’ll find several riesling varieties perfect for your favorite fish and pasta dishes for under $30 at Marketview Liquor.

The versatility of rosé gives you all sorts of options regarding food pairings. Because it’s in the middle of the flavor profile, it pairs with just about everything, including:

Pinot grigio is a popular white wine you can find for under $30. This refreshing wine pairs well with popular Italian staples such as risotto and pasta as well as summery, light dishes.
• Antipasto, especially vegetable or seafood-based ones

Shop the Best Red and White Wines Under $30

If you’re shopping for wine with a specific budget in mind, it can be challenging to find the right wine at the right price. A grocery store or state store has limited shelf space, so they may also have a limited selection. At Marketview Liquor, you’ll find a vast selection of different wines and other spirits at any price point. Browse our inventory of wines priced from under $10 to $30 to find the best wines under $30.In the past, you used to have to spend a lot of money to get good wine. Luckily, you can purchase a choice bottle of wine for less than $20 these days, as long as you know where to look. And thanks to the internet, it’s easier than ever to find high-quality wines for a low price.

In this article, we’ll look at what contributes to the cost of wine along with some top-rated wines — which means they’ve scored a 90 or more point on the 100-point scale — that are less than $20 so you can sip in style without breaking the bank. Keep reading to find great wines under $20 for every season and occasion.

What Defines the Best Rated Top Wines Under $20?

When it comes to wine, a high price does not automatically mean high quality. Although many expensive wines may be superb, there are plenty of lower-priced wines that taste equally as delightful, if not more so. In fact, Consumer Reports found that some of the best-rated wines are under $20, while some far more expensive wines earn mediocre scores.

So what makes some wines more expensive than others? There are three main factors when it comes to pricing wine — oak, time and terroir.

Oak, especially new oak, has long been touted as the best way to age wines. Putting wine in an oak barrel both adds oak flavors to the wine and exposes the wine to oxygen, which makes the tannins less intense and the wine’s taste smoother. Because oak barrels are expensive and only a couple of barrels can be produced from a single tree, buyers can expect to pay more for a bottle of wine aged in previously unused oak.

Although many people assume an older wine is always better, this principle mainly applies to red wine. Time affects the taste of wine’s fruit flavors and reduces its acidity and tannins, which means a well-aged wine tends to taste smoother and rounder than a younger wine. Because holding wine for more time takes up space and costs the vintner money, consumers end up paying a bit more for every year the wine has aged.

Great wine starts with the grapes. Terroir refers to how a specific region’s soil, climate and terrain affect the taste of its wine. Ironically, the best grapes for producing wine are typically grown in less fertile areas where the vines struggle to produce grapes. Of course, yielding grapes in tougher conditions requires more labor and money to maintain, resulting in a more expensive bottle of wine.

While oak, time and terroir are the three main influences over a wine’s price, other traits could contribute to the final cost as well. Here are some additional factors that could have you paying more per bottle:
• Brand: Certain brands of wine are regarded as classier and more high-end than others. These famous brands are well-marketed and will cost more than comparable wines.
• Trends: Different types of wines can go in and out of fashion depending on pop culture and ratings. A wine that has been recently referenced in a hit movie or received an impressive review from a tough critic might shoot up in popularity, which will most likely increase its price, too.
• Production costs: The cost of the equipment, supplies and labor that goes into creating a bottle of wine can vary by vineyard and harvest style. There are many ways to grow grapes, such as handpicking or mechanical harvesting, and to ferment wine, such as in large steel tanks or small oak barrels, and each variable can affect the final price tag.
• Taxes and tariffs: Depending on where the wine is produced, there may be additional tax and tariff costs to cover. For example, wines from Europe face an extra tax when imported, which ultimately raises the price of each bottle.

Among the wide selection of white wines on the market, there are many inexpensive options that still pack all the flavor and complexity of more costly bottles. In fact, white wines under $20 can still have the delicious flavors that come from being aged in an oak barrel. If you know what to look for, you can easily find white wines that taste like they fermented in new oak barrels for decades and don’t cost a fortune.

These are the oak flavors you can expect from a white wine:

Keep these flavor profiles in mind to help you easily identify good white wines under $20. To help you begin your search for a top-rated, inexpensive white wine, we’ve put together a short list of five popular white wine varieties and the brands that will cost you less:

Moscato is named for the small, round grape that it is made from. Because it is a sweet, light-bodied white wine, moscato is consistently one of the best summer wines under $20. Moscato pairs remarkably well with desserts and cheeses, making it the perfect bottle to bust out for a summer party or laid-back day around the pool.

When it comes to finding a good bottle of moscato under $20, look for a label that says Moscato d’Asti. Most bottles of Moscato d’Asti deliver a complex blend of sweet and savory flavors layered with crisp, fruity tastes and a floral fragrance. This dynamic flavor profile means many brands of Moscato d’Asti are rated well and pair nicely with most dishes.

If you’re hoping to get a good deal on Moscato d’Asti, keep an eye out for these brands:

This type of sophisticated white wine falls on the more tart and acidic side of the flavor spectrum. In general, sauvignon blanc is dry with herbal flavors and notes of citrus and tropical fruits like pineapple, banana, passion fruit, grapefruit and mango. Some of the best bottles of sauv blanc come out of New Zealand, which perfectly demonstrates how a “New World” country can produce top-rated wines under $20.

A good bottle of New Zealand sauvignon blanc has a floral profile with zesty undertones and an herbal finish. It will also be a bit heavier and waxier on the mouthfeel, which perfectly accents the fresh, flowery flavors lightly poured into every glass.

To find a top-rated sauvignon blanc under $20, browse these New Zealand brands:

A good pinot grigio is fairly simple, light-bodied and dry. A best-rated bottle of pinot grigio will have an intense yet balanced combination of citrus and tropical fruits with a crisp acidity. Sometimes, exceptionally good bottles will even feature hints of fruity candy flavors.

Pinot grigio bottles that achieve a high rating typically pin down that elusive balance between the wine’s natural tartness and acidity without turning astringent. A glass of good pinot grigio is refreshing and goes well with a lighter dish like fish, making it perfect for a sweltering summer evening.

Make finding a top-rated pinot grigio under $20 easy by shopping these brands:

If you tend to shy away from dry wines, riesling is the white wine for you. With their fruity aromas and varying degrees of sweetness, riesling bottles prove that a wine doesn’t need to be dry to be sophisticated. The best riesling will offer an equal mix of mineral and fruit characteristics, with a slightly sharp yet sweet aroma that carries through as you sip.

When served cold, a glass of riesling can be a delicious, clean crowd-pleaser. And the best news? Riesling tends to be a very affordable type of wine, so you can treat yourself while still staying on a budget.

Find your new favorite top-rated riesling under $20 by checking out these brands:

Chardonnay is one of the most popular dry white wines for a reason. Because chardonnay grapes are grown in several settings around the world, bottles of chardonnay boast unique flavors for affordable prices. Fruity chardonnays will have pear, apple, tropical and citrus fruit flavors, while more woody chardonnays will feature butter or butterscotch flavors with vanilla undertones.

While chardonnay tends to have a sweeter sip, top-rated chardonnays prevent a sugar rush by rounding out the wine with rich undertones of flavors like grass clippings and char. These deeper layers ground the chardonnay by giving it a robust body and fuller taste.

Make these your go-to brands for a high-quality chardonnay under $20:

Like white wines, top-rated red wines under $20 can still be aged in oak and offer unique flavors. Oak flavors found in red wines commonly include:

If you’re on the hunt for a good red wine under $20, check out this list of five flavorful, bold red wine varieties and the best brands for scoring a deal:

A bottle of cabernet sauvignon is evidence that you don’t need to pay a high price to get a great tasting wine. As a classic red wine, cab sauv is robust and full of flavor. A good cabernet sauvignon mixes herbal notes with dark berries and cassis — it may even have a chocolatey aroma. Flavors may include tastes of raspberry, plum, black cherry and raisin, along with mint and pepper.

Numerous vineyards around the globe produce cabernet sauvignon, which means you get endless flavorings to explore and a wide range of bottle prices to pick from. Depending on where it was made, the method used to age it and its level of acidity, a bottle of cabernet sauvignon could rank among the top red wines under $20.

To find a high-rated cabernet sauvignon under $20, look for these brand names:

Typically, pinot noir is subtle, moderately complex and dry with a medium finish. Unlike its white, tart pinot grigio counterpart, pinot noir is less acidic and smoother in general. Common flavors for a glass of pinot noir include strawberry or raspberry, spicy notes and cedar shavings, giving it a lush and layered profile.

Because pinot noir was first made in the Burgundy region of France, you may also hear it referred to as red Burgundy wine. Although originally from the Burgundy region, incredible bottles of pinot noir can come from Chile, Australia, New Zealand, California and Oregon nowadays. When you buy a domestic pinot noir, you can easily score one of the top red wines under $20.

Get a top-rated pinot noir for less than $20 by browsing these domestic brands:

Merlot is simply an essential red wine for any wine enthusiast’s personal collection. A smooth-tasting, well-bodied and rounded dry wine, merlot is easy to drink and enjoy. Merlots can offer a range of flavors, from fruity aromas to more herbaceous aromas to a mix of fruit and wood. Many merlots feature dark berry and spicy notes.

Because merlot is such a well-known and sophisticated type of wine, it can be difficult to find a high-quality merlot with an affordable price tag. While merlot is so delicious that it is often worth paying a little extra for, sometimes you simply aren’t in the mood to splurge. Luckily, there are a couple of rare brands that deliver top-notch merlot that won’t hurt your wallet.

To avoid sticker shock, shop these brands for top-rated merlot under $20:

Despite being a relatively newer wine, malbec has taken the wine scene by storm, quickly gaining a large following of wine fans across the country. This deeply colored, robust red wine is medium-bodied, fruity and fairly complex. One sip of malbec will deliver juicy, vibrant dark berry notes to your taste buds with hints of more delicate flavors like violets and sage.

While malbec might not have the illustrious heritage of classic wines like cabernet sauvignon or chardonnay, it more than makes up for its lack of history in aroma and flavor. In fact, malbec tends to be less expensive because it has yet to become a household name. Thanks to its big flavors and small price tag, malbec has earned its title as one of the best red wines under $20.

Impress your dinner guests with a top-rated malbec under $20 by grabbing a bottle from one of these brands:

Red zinfandel boasts bold flavors and an impressive complexity. Red zin flavors usually include raspberries, dark fruit, jammy fruit, notes of oak, tobacco, leather or smoke, and subtle peppery or spicy hints. A good bottle of red zinfandel will be well-balanced, dry or slightly off-dry, medium- or full-bodied and highly complex with a medium-to-long finish.

One thing to keep in mind is zinfandel tends to be lower in alcohol by volume (ABV) than many other wines. Zinfandel is also normally lower in calories than most wine varieties. Lower in ABV, calories and price, red zinfandel is indisputably one of the best wines you can get for less than $20.

Because oak-aging red zin is a delicate process that requires an expert vintner, a good oak-aged zinfandel is a rare gem. When properly oak-aged, a red zinfandel’s sweet notes of jammy fruit will be beautifully grounded. But oak-aging zinfandel can quickly go wrong and result in a confused, musky red wine. Rest assured that a well-rated oak-aged red zinfandel has been perfectly fermented to create a lovely full-bodied wine.

Make shopping for top-rated red zinfandel under $20 a snap by sticking with these brands:

We’re pretty sure popping open a bottle of sparkling wine is the only way to mark a special occasion properly. And with so many affordable types of sparkling wines available, celebrating in style doesn’t have to be expensive. Raise a glass to these top-rated sparkling wines under $20 that won’t burst your budget’s bubble:

Just like regular riesling, sparkling riesling is delightfully delicious and surprisingly affordable. Sparkling riesling manages to maintain all the fruity goodness of regular riesling while dancing across the tongue to a sugary symphony.

By marrying the sweet notes of riesling with the expressive bubbles, sparkling riesling serves as the perfect base for various cocktails while being vibrant enough to sip on its own. Even sparkling riesling under $20 are full of lively carbonation and sweet flavors — the cherry on top of a joyful celebration.

For those who don’t have much of a sweet tooth, brut is your new best friend. As the driest type of champagne, brut is more raw and unrefined with less sugar than most other sparkling wines. When planning a dinner party, it can be a smart hosting move to serve brut at the end of the meal to balance the sweetness of dessert. Complete your dinner party without breaking the bank by finding a high-quality bottle of brut for less than $20.

A list of sparkling wines would not be complete without mentioning a few outstanding options for prosecco under $20. A widely beloved white wine full of bubbles and mellow fruit flavors, prosecco has earned its reputation as a go-to celebratory wine. While many people enjoy a glass of straight prosecco, it can be a great addition to any cocktail to give it a fun, fizzy texture.

Made from red grapes, rosé comes in minimal contact with the grape’s skin, which gives it a much lighter color than traditional red wines. While rosé can be dry, it is typically sweeter than red wines, especially blush wines. Rosé can be bought as a still, semi-sparkling or sparkling wine and is always best served well-chilled.

If you’re looking for a lush, top-rated rosé under $20, check out these brands:

A good wine for a hot summer’s day tends to be light, lean and crisp. For the warmer days and balmier nights that come with summer, a summer wine needs to have easy drinkability. Depending on taste, you can choose a sugary sweet wine or a tongue-puckeringly dry bottle — both have their place in quenching a summer wine craving.

Of the highest rated wines under $20, these types tend to be the most popular during the summer:
• Rosé: Although rosé can be dry, its usual delicate, fruity sweetness makes it a light and refreshing summer wine.
• Sauvignon blanc: Typically subtle and light-bodied, sauvignon blanc brings bright and playfully acidic flavors that taste like sunshine.
• Pinot noir: When you get the urge to have red wine in the summer, a boldly fruity and slightly floral pinot noir is the perfect solution.

During the wintertime, robust, medium- and full-bodied wines with strong flavor reign supreme. Oak-aged red and white wines are especially enjoyable throughout the colder months because their flavors are deeper, warmer and more complex than other bottles. And with affordable winter wine selections, your spending can cool off as the weather does.

Among the top-rated wines under $20 already discussed, reach for one of these to cap off a cold winter night:
• Merlot: A rich, full-bodied merlot can feel like wrapping up in a blanket of red fruit flavors and notes of smoky wood.
• Cabernet sauvignon: As a robust, low acidity red wine full of deep flavors, cabernet sauvignon was made for the winter months.
• Chardonnay: Don’t be afraid to break out a white wine during the colder seasons — a buttery, woody chardonnay could be just what you need to warm up.

Stock Up on Top and Best Rated Wines Without Overspending

At Marketview Liquor, we know how important it is to find a great bottle of wine at a price you can afford. Marketview Liquor offers a wide assortment of wines for less than $20 because we don’t believe you should have to sacrifice quality for affordability.

If you’re looking for an extensive collection of the best-rated wines under $20, check out the inexpensive, quality wines from Marketview Liquor. Browse our high-quality, low-cost wines, and you’ll be sure to find a delicious wine under $20!Whether you’re buying a bottle for a friend’s dinner party or want to unwind after a busy day at work, saving money when buying wine makes it just a little bit better.

If you think you have to spend a lot of money for a good bottle of wine, that’s not the case. Here are three tips to help you save when you’re out shopping for wine.

1. Keep an Eye on Sales

Whenever you’re browsing through aisles of wine at your state store or grocery store, you’ve probably noticed select wines are often put out at discounted prices. This is a great way to save money, but you should also be a little wary.

If the retailer has some odds and ends they’re trying to move, you can get a great deal on a nice bottle. Stores will usually place these wines in bins at the ends of aisles. Whenever you’re out shopping, check these first to see if you can get a good deal.

However, not all “sale” wines are a real bargain. Wherever your store purchased its wine has its set price, and the store is at liberty to sell what they buy for whatever amount they choose. They may put one type of wine out at a lower price than usual, but that doesn’t mean it’s always the best wine for your money.

You can save anywhere from 10 to 25 percent on wines if you’re willing to buy a case. Many retailers who will give you a discount if you buy wine in bulk, which is the cheapest option over the long-term.

With some stores, you don’t even have to order the exact same wine for the entire case. Many online stores will let you mix and match, which is a great way to save money while also stocking up on a variety of your favorite types of wines.

Get your chardonnay for those lighter summer meals and some bottles of red, like pinot noir or merlot, to celebrate heavier holiday meals. Or, order your favorite wine to enjoy in front of the TV after a long day at work. You can get all your favorites and save money at the same time — it’s a win-win!

Your routine may be to grab a bottle of wine while you’re grocery shopping or stopping by the state store that’s closest to your home. Even though these places may be the most convenient, they may not have the best prices. Ask around to see if you can find better deals on the wines you love. Friends, family and coworkers may have some useful tips.

Searching online can also help you compare prices to find the best wine for the money. There’s no need to drive all over town to find the best deal on a good bottle of wine. Check out our lists of the best wines under $20 and the best wines under $30!

Buying the cheapest bottle you can find isn’t the best way to find a good wine, but there are plenty of ways to save while you’re wine shopping. At Marketview Liquor, we have a broad selection of wines and other spirits you can browse. Check out our premium selection of wines today! We offer free shipping on select bottles of six or more and a 10% mix-and-match case discount on select bottles of wine. You can also check out our owner Mike Palmeri’s top picks for wines that represent a great value for the price!If you drink wine, chances are you fall into one of two distinct categories — white wine or red wine lovers. A recent national survey showed most people prefer red wines. We know — if you’re a white wine drinker, you’re wondering how that’s possible. There are plenty of white wine drinkers who can’t imagine enjoying a glass of dry red. A chilled glass of a fruity white seems so much more refreshing.

While it may seem as if these two categories of wine drinkers are forever separated, we believe there are red wines for white wine drinkers.

Various characteristics go into the glass of wine you love. Is it light or heavy? Does it taste fruity or bitter? Is the alcohol content high or low? Stereotypes say that whites are light, refreshing, fruity wines and reds are more complex, savory, dry wines. But believe it or not, plenty of reds have many of the same characteristics as white wine. If you’re willing to try, you may find a red wine you enjoy.

Let’s say you want to know what all the red wine hype is about — where do you begin? To help you choose a red wine, we’ve created a list of some of the most popular reds with flavor profiles similar to whites. We’re sure that as you read through the details of each of these red wines, you might be tempted to give them a try.

Our very first recommendation is to start with a dry rosé wine — yes, we know this may make some wine connoisseurs cringe, but hear us out. This choice is the perfect way to get your feet wet as a white wine drinker searching for their red wine match.

Here’s why. The winemaking processes for white and red wine are different. Once the grapes are harvested and juiced in red winemaking, the juice is left to soak together with the grape skins, seeds and stems for an extended period, which is a big part of the reason the flavor profile can be so different.

In the rosé winemaking process, red grapes are used, but they only soak with the grape skins for a brief amount of time — usually just a few days — hence a pink color instead of red. It’s the perfect start to get used to red grapes and get a sense of the different flavors that come from this slightly different winemaking process. Rosé can also be served chilled, which is familiar to you as a white wine drinker.

Rosé wine pairings are also similar to what you’d enjoy with a glass of your favorite white. The often bright and crisp tasting notes complement lighter dishes — like chicken, fish and shellfish — that you can also enjoy with various white wines. When trying this red wine for white wine drinkers, you don’t even need to change your dinner menu.

Believe it or not, pinot noir and chardonnay grapes are usually grown together — either on the same vineyard or in the same region. Pinot noir is considered a softer red, which is more likely to please a white wine drinker. The grape variety used to make pinot noir has thinner skin, which is important because the result is a wine with low tannin content.

Tannins create the dry feeling in your mouth you associate with red wines. To reduce that feeling with a low-tannin pinot noir means you may find yourself enjoying a glass of red over your usual white.

The best pinot noir for a white wine drinker is from the Burgundy region. There, grapes grow in a cooler climate and are more likely to produce wine with savory fruit flavors, like lemon, quince and apple. These flavors should sound familiar, as they are likely within your favorite white wine. Since pinot noir is a versatile wine, it can complement various dishes — even ones with heavier flavors you may not have enjoyed with white wine.

As a bonus, this is another red wine you can drink chilled. You don’t have to worry about adjusting to both the new flavor and new serving temperature at the same time. A chilled pinot noir will have the same cool, crisp and light flavors you’ve come to love from your white wine.

This wine may go by the name of the grapes, gamay, or the name of the region where the grapes are grown, Beaujolais. Gamay is a grape variety that has been around since the 1300s, yet somehow, it’s not very well-known. That’s mostly because it grows in the same region of Burgundy as the pinot noir grapes. In that area, pinot noir has always overshadowed gamay. But in one subregion of Burgundy called Beaujolais, the gamay grape has managed to outshine its popular relative.

At its core, wine made with gamay grapes from the Beaujolais region has a very similar profile to pinot noir — light-bodied, low tannin content and fruity, with tart cherry, raspberry and banana flavors. It’s also best served slightly chilled, ideally to about 60 degrees. And, since it’s the lesser-known of the two wines, a bottle of gamay is often more affordable than one of pinot noir.

Enjoy a glass of gamay with aged cheeses, as you would with a Chardonnay. Or, try it with a fish dinner, as you would with a pinot gris.

While barbera grapes are primarily grown in Northern Italy, the best barbera red wine for white wine drinkers has roots in Australia and right here in the United States. The reason is that the Italian version tends to be more bitter — a taste that will likely scare away white wine drinkers.

Don’t let the dark shade of red fool you. This light-bodied wine has low tannin levels and higher acidity, both characteristics of white wine. The versions from Australia and the United States, especially California, come with more fruity flavors that include red cherries, strawberries and blackberries. That fruitiness pairs perfectly with a chilled temperature of about 60 degrees. It also pairs well with herb-infused dishes and mushrooms, similar to how you’d enjoy a sauvignon blanc.

Some wines that come from grapes grown in Italy may be a great fit for a white wine drinker, and schiava grapes are one of these varieties. These grapes also go by the name vernatsch, Black Hamburg or trollinger. Most of them come from a valley in the Alps known as Alto Adige.

What is it about this type of wine that appeals to white wine drinkers? Its nickname is the cotton candy wine — it comes with aromas of bubblegum, strawberry and Lemonhead candy. Pretty much everything about it is light, from the color to the body. Compare the pairing possibilities to a riesling, which complements tofu dishes, shrimp or chicken. Those meals make a congruent pairing with the simple flavors of schiava wine.

One complex aspect of this wine is the naming. In the region of Italy where most schiava grapes grow, there are three official languages — Ladin, German and Italian. Depending on the area, you may see schiava wines labeled as edelvernatsch, kleinvernatsch or St. Maddelena/St. Magdalener DOC — all varieties of schiava grapes.

Rather than worrying about the complex labels, we recommend trying a glass of schiava nera or schiava grigia.

Lambrusco grapes have been around even longer than gamay grapes. While it’s tough to put an exact date on these grapes, many believe they may have roots all the way back to 160 BC. These wines are almost always semi-sparkling, but not all Lambrusco wines are created equal. As a white wine drinker, you want to focus on the Lambrusco di Sorbara, a high-quality variety. Lambrusco di Sorbara is the lightest of the Lambrusco wines, appearing to have a color that may even be more pink than red.

You’ll find these wines to be light and refreshing, with sweet aromas of orange, cherries, violets and watermelon. The levels of fruit flavors in this particular wine are high. While these aromas are sweet, and the body light and refreshing, you’ll notice it is also a dry wine with a medium level of tannins. The dry Lambrusco di Sorbara with its fruity notes contrasts a rich, creamy pasta dish, much like a light white zinfandel.

For the right white wine drinkers, this red wine just might do the trick. While the typical white wine has a light body, there are also fuller-bodied whites, like a chardonnay. If chardonnay is your white wine go-to, then zinfandel might be your red wine match. The zinfandel grape can be found in over 10% of all Californian vineyards. It’s a key part of the California red wine industry. This fuller-bodied red is juicy, round and low on tannins. Serve it chilled — you won’t have to worry about dulling the fruit flavors in this glass.

You may already know about zinfandel wines as a white wine drinker. In the United States, the white zinfandel is a popular varietal. It’s more similar to a slightly sweet rosé and lighter in color than its red counterpart. Still, the familiarity makes zinfandel a good introductory red wine for white wine drinkers.

Merlot is the second most popular red grape in America, and it also has a reputation for being an easy-drinking red. It’s a great introduction to red wines for white wine drinkers. Its history lies in being one of the grapes included in the prestigious Bordeaux wine blend in France in the 1700s. When it came to the United States, Americans decided it was worthy of standing alone and made wines using 100% merlot grapes.

These grapes are in the same family as the white grape variety known as sauvignon blanc. If your favorite white is a rich, California sauvignon blanc, a natural red wine fit might be a merlot. The best place to start is with a domestic and affordable merlot.

While merlot isn’t considered a low-tannin red, it is often made in a low-tannin style. That’s part of the reason you won’t find the bitterness you usually do with a mid- to high-tannin wine. Instead, the cherry flavor pairs well with meats like lamb, which also goes well with an oaky chardonnay.

Malbec has the same history as merlot, beginning among the grapes in the Bordeaux wine blend in France. However, this grape variety didn’t find much popularity outside France, because it is particularly susceptible to disease and rot. Subsequently, it was tough to grow and keep healthy. It did eventually find a home outside France in the wine region of Mendoza in Argentina. It stayed there, though, and malbec wine wasn’t discovered by Americans until the early 2000s.

Those who keep up with the latest wine lists won’t get to know malbec wine there. This wine is known for being delicious and affordable — not for its prestige. It’s also known for being easy to drink, and the most affordable versions of malbec — under $20 — are famous for being smooth, juicy and fruity. For a white wine drinker, the less time malbec has to age in oak barrels, the better.

While you should serve malbec at room temperature, it’s still a suitable option for white wine lovers. It contrasts earthy foods with its fruity flavors, much like your favorite white varietals.

Both of these wines come from grapes grown on Mount Etna on the Italian island of Sicily. While pinot noir and gamay are more well-known, wines from this area have become more popular in the United States. Every good wine enthusiast knows climate and soil impact the taste of wine — and Etna Rosso and frappato are both prime examples of this.

Both are made from grapes grown in volcanic soil. The result is a light-bodied red, with acidity comparable to white wine. The fruitiness is present, too, but in the form of strawberry flavors. Pour yourself a chilled glass of either of these choices, as they’re most refreshing served lightly chilled. These varietals are versatile, like pinot noir, making them suitable for white wine-friendly dishes, like fish and poultry.

Grenache — or garnacha, its Spanish name — grapes are one of the most widely planted grapes in the world. You’ll find this grape variety in some of the most famous wines, and it’s easy to see why. This wine is known for its berry flavors, specifically strawberries and raspberries. Some have even compared its taste to that of a Fruit Roll-Up.

The two different names for this type of wine tell the story of its beginnings. The grape was first discovered in the northern region of Spain, known as Aragon. At that time, it was known by its Spanish name but was not yet very popular. As a result of the location, near the border of France, this grape variety made its way to the Languedoc-Roussillon region of southern France. Here, the French called it grenache, and it became famous shortly after that.

While grenache wines can have more tannins than some of the other light reds we’ve mentioned, you shouldn’t have to worry about dryness or bitter flavors if you stick to an affordable version under $20. Spanish garnacha or grenache-based blends from Roussillon in France are both great wines to get started. These wines can hold up to hearty, comforting dishes, which you may not get to enjoy with your usual white varietals.

When you’re looking for a red wine that tastes like a white, there are several factors to consider. The easiest way to reveal these factors is to simply ask the question, “What is it about red wines that white wine drinkers can’t stand?” If we asked you, we’re sure your answer would be something along the lines of:
• Red wines are too dry or bitter.

Therefore, you can see why if you’re searching for a red wine you’ll enjoy, you should look for one with a light body, low tannin content and fruity flavor. What exactly does all of that mean for those of you who may not be wine connoisseurs? We’ve included some details on each of these aspects, so you know exactly what you’re searching for in a red wine.

When you see a comment about the wine’s body, it’s also often referring to the viscosity or “mouthfeel.” In other words, how light or heavy does the wine feel in your mouth? You may also notice the viscosity as you swirl wine in your glass. Heavy-bodied wines linger on the sides more than a light one would. If you’re an avid white wine lover, chances are you like a lighter-bodied wine, because whites tend to be light.

Body and alcohol content are a pair, so if you prefer a lighter wine, it’s probably less alcoholic. The good news is, not all red wines come with a full body and higher alcohol content. It is possible to find lighter-bodied red wines with an alcohol content comparable to that of white wine. You just have to know where to look for them.

Tannins are a natural compound found in grape skins, seeds and stems, and they have a natural drying effect in the mouth. As you may guess, a high level of tannins is more common in red wine due to the red winemaking process. With the wine exposed to the grape skins, seeds and stems longer, it can develop a higher tannin content. White wine, on the other hand, is made without those grape components, giving it a lower tannin content and making it less dry.

If you’re a white wine drinker looking for a red wine, look for ones that come from grapes with fewer tannins. Burgundy, dolcetto and barbera, pinot noir, Sangiovese, Spanish Rioja, Beaujolais and tempranillo are good options. You might also consider a wine that was made with limited exposure to the grape skins, seeds and stems, like a rosé.

It’s also important to note whether a red wine was aged in oak barrels, because oak adds a lot of tannin to the wine throughout the aging process. While these tannins are usually said to be “sweeter,” it’s probably best to avoid reds aged in oak as a white wine drinker looking for red wines — especially when just starting.

Both white and red wines can claim to be fruity, but a fruity white and fruity red are different. If you think about a fruity white wine you love, it probably has flavors of apple, lemon, peach, citrus or pear. Fruity reds, on the other hand, have flavors of cherry, raspberry, blueberry, plum and blackberry.

But the differences in fruit flavors don’t make red wines a lost cause. If you find a red with prominent fruit flavors, you’re more likely to enjoy it as a white wine drinker. Opt for fruity reds over those that boast earthiness. Earthiness can be a white wine drinker’s worst nightmare, as it can be dry and harsh.

Another factor that isn’t a staple part of the wine but is important for white wine drinkers is the serving temperature. Imagine yourself sitting outside on a warm day, sipping on a glass of your favorite white wine. In this daydream, you’re likely drinking a chilled glass.

Whites are almost always served cooler than glasses of red because warmer temperatures make the tannins more prominent. While you may enjoy the refreshing nature of a chilled glass of white, the less prominent tannins are another reason you enjoy your wine chilled.

Wine enthusiasts’ opinions differ slightly, but the consensus is that white wines should be served somewhere around 40-50 degrees, and red should be served somewhere around 55-65 degrees. It’s possible to overchill your glass of wine, which can mute the flavors.

If you’re searching for the best red wine for white wine drinkers, consider tasting your glass of red at the same temperature you’d enjoy a white. The subtle difference, combined with a red wine with a lighter body, low tannins and fruity flavor, may be exactly what you need to begin embracing red wines.

Whether we’ve convinced you to give red wines a try, Marketview Liquor has a wide selection of both red and white wines. All these wines are easy to order online by the bottle or case and have shipped anywhere in the United States. Mix and match a customized case of select wine that includes a few of your favorite white wines and a few of the reds we’ve mentioned.

We have an extensive online wine selection, and we’re sure you’ll find the wine you want in a price range you can afford to pay.

Choose from wines that originate along California’s Coast, in a valley of the Alps, on the rolling hills of Spain or in the south of France. Whether you’re searching for a high-end bottle to give as a gift or a case of affordable favorites with which to stock your pantry, our selection includes them all.

Get started by searching for your new red wine match or your tried-and-true white wine favorite on our website.Wine drinkers overwhelmingly fall into one of two categories: red wine drinkers and white wine drinkers. The white wine enthusiasts can’t imagine enjoying the taste of a savory, dry red. Red wine drinkers can’t imagine buying a bottle of fruity, light white. While these two groups may not often mix, we’re going to shatter the stereotype by giving you some food for thought. We’re going to suggest white wines for red wine drinkers.

A recent national survey showed that 57.8 percent of Americans prefer red wine to white wine. There are several white wines that have a depth of taste more like a red, so if given a chance, you may discover there are some white wines that — dare we say it? — you might truly enjoy. You can’t deny the fact that a glass of white is known for being lighter, more refreshing and more versatile when it comes to food pairings. Plus, the high-end white wines are often much more affordable than a high-end bottle of red.

With summer just around the corner, why not try one of these white wines for red wine lovers?

To help you choose a white wine, we’ve matched some of the most popular reds with a white that has a similar flavor profile. We’ve also included a few whites that are usually good matches for red wine drinkers, regardless of your specific red wine preference.

Fun fact: pinot noir grapes and chardonnay grapes are often grown together, either on the same vineyard or in the same region. Just like a pinot noir comes in several different styles, so does a chardonnay. The full-bodied cabernet drinker can also often enjoy the full-bodied chardonnay. If you haven’t tried a chardonnay that you like, it could be that you weren’t drinking a variety of the wine that matches your pinot noir or cabernet preference.

Here’s some background information that can help you choose the chardonnay pair to your pinot noir or cabernet favorite.

In general, chardonnay grows best in cooler climates, but it’s also successful in warmer climates that tend to have morning fog. As a wine drinker, you know that different climates produce different tastes. In general, the cooler climates — like Oregon, Burgundy and Chile — produce wine with savory fruit flavors, like lemon, quince and apple. The warmer climates — like the California coastal regions — produce wine with sweet fruit flavors like mango and pineapple.

If you’re a big fan of the light, fresh, earthy characteristics of pinot noir, consider trying a white burgundy. If, on the other hand, you prefer the fruitier style of pinot noir, you should consider a California chardonnay with rich, buttery and vanilla oak flavors.

If you prefer a full-bodied cabernet, you’ll be happy to know there are also full-bodied chardonnays. This type of chardonnay will be aged in oak via the malolactic process — something you’ll want to look for as you search for chardonnay to match your love of cabernet. These full-bodied white wines will give you toasty notes of vanilla and cream.

While cabernet sauvignon and merlot come from two separate grapes, these grapes are from the same Bordeaux grape family, which means they share some of the same characteristics. A few varieties of sauvignon blanc are hands-down the best white wine for you if you like a more herbal and savory flavor.

The grapes used to make cabernet sauvignon and merlot have something in common with a white wine relative that comes from the same bordeaux family: sauvignon blanc. That doesn’t mean all sauvignon blanc wines are a good match for red wine drinkers though. Again, the region of the grapes plays a role. In this case, California winemakers are responsible for making richer varieties of this white wine that is more likely to appeal to cabernet sauvignon and merlot drinkers.

Better yet, take a rich sauvignon blanc and combine it with semillon. These are white grapes known for being a rich and full-weighted variety, mostly found in France and Australia. Semillon-sauvignon blanc isn’t the most common. In fact, one of the most expensive white wines in the world, Chateau Haut-Brion Blanc, is this very blend. But have no fear — there are winemakers in Sonoma, Napa and Washington State that create plenty of more affordable options.

The region where the grapes are grown is also the primary reason people who prefer rioja or tempranillo wines may find their ideal white wine pair has roots in Rhone. As many red wine drinkers know, rioja is frequently recognized as the most famous Spanish wine. Unlike many grape varieties, which originate in one region but are then transposed to new growing areas around the world, the tempranillo grapes have always been born and raised in Spain — and used in wine for over 2,000 years. Rioja wines use a blend of grapes, with the tempranillo group being the primary variety, and are named (as most wines are) for the region of Spain in which they’re grown.

If you can sacrifice your Spanish wine pride, you may find a white wine pair in France. Viognier, marsanne and roussanne are all varieties from the Rhone Valley of France that may appeal to you. Viogniers may have a slightly familiar taste, as these grapes are often used to blend into red wines to give them complexity. Who knew a white grape could be responsible for adding such complexity?

White wines made with varieties of grapes from the Rhone Valley of France are often full-bodied, more aromatic and contain a lower acidity level. You’ll discover flavors of ripe stone fruit, spice and herb with floral aromas. If you’re searching for a domestic producer, look no further than California’s Central Coast.

Marsanne-roussanne is a combination of two white grapes originally from the Rhone Valley that are now growing in California’s Central Coast and Washington State. In these white wines, you’ll find flavors of baked apple, lemon, tangerine, beeswax and — when aged in oak — a rich, full-bodied, oily texture. These and other Rhone Whites are great white wines for red wine drinkers.

If you’re in love with the lush fruit, full body, easy drinking and elevated body and alcohol of a malbec, you’re sure to love Portuguese whites. Part of what is responsible for the malbec experience is that it’s from the hot climate of Argentina. To get a white that tempts your palate, you’re going to want one from the central and southern parts of Portugal, where the grapes are fully ripened. These grapes result in a bold, full-fruited wine that somehow still manages to be refreshing.

Which Portuguese white wines could be best? Arinto, encruzado and antão vaz are three great options. Encruzado wines are from the Dao region in the north and branco blends from inland Alentejo are also a great match. These grapes have a naturally higher acidity, so as a red wine drinker, look for an older variety to capitalize on the nutty and lush flavors.

We’re aware that not all Italian reds are created equal. In fact, quite the opposite — within this group is a wide range of styles. However, believe it or not, there are some things they have in common, including body, tannic structure and acidity. Yes, Italian whites are a thing — and for some who love Italian reds, that might be enough. But there are other whites with similar characteristics we think red wine drinkers might like even better.

We’re talking about a unique style of chenin blanc, called savennieres, that originate in the Loire Valley of France. In this region of France, grapes are left to ripen as long as possible, being harvested late and fermented dry. This method produces a full-bodied, complex wine that has the high acidity of a chenin blanc. Much like Italian reds, the flavors of Savennieres develop over time and are quite distinct with notes of honey, hay, smoky minerality and yellow fruit. Giving it time to age only makes the flavor better for red wine drinkers.

Orange wine is related to red wine in a different way. The colors are similar, certainly, but so is the winemaking process. Like the reds, during fermentation, the grape skins remain in contact with the juice. This means the natural tannins of the grape skins and seeds come out in the wine, creating that drying sensation and adding a depth of flavor that’s usually only found in red wines. Production of these orange wines is ancient but has begun to resurface, primarily in Slovenia and northeastern Italy.

Many orange wines also incorporate oxidation. Before you jump to negative conclusions, hear us out. It’s true that an overabundance of oxygen can be a bad thing for wine flavors. However, in orange wines, it serves a purpose that can be appealing to red wine drinkers: it softens the fruity flavors and acidity levels and allows the wine to develop more complex flavors. The result from these oxidated orange wines is a nutty flavor that appeals to many red wine drinkers.

Overall, you won’t find any overriding fruit flavors in these wines. Instead, you’ll notice the fermented and aging flavors like brazil nut, wood varnish, linseed oil and sourdough.

Ribolla — also known as rebula — gialla is a very rich white wine from the northeastern parts of Italy that has a full body and is packed with baked apple and tangerine flavors. You’ll also likely taste hints of honey, Thyme and roasted nut. Choose from fresh and aged styles as well as a more “orange” style — all white wines worth exploring for red wine drinkers.

Aged rioja blanco, with origins in Spain, is another white wine that is likely to satisfy a red wine drinker’s palette. As it ages, it takes on a beautiful gold color and produces more nutty and tertiary flavors with notes of petrol, beeswax, chamomile and subtle citrus flavors. This is a wine you’ll love the longer it’s in the bottle.

Travel to Greece, an area not known for its wine, and you’ll find assyrtiko grapes. If you’ve heard of wine from Greece, chances are good it’s made with assyrtiko grapes. These grapes grow on an island, and when you taste the very best versions of it, you’ll be able to tell that it comes from a location near the ocean. In assyrtiko wine, you’ll uncover flavors of briny salinity, chalky minerals and aromas of seaspray. It’s a complex flavor profile that’s different and appeals to many red wine drinkers.

If you’re in search of a white wine that tastes like a red, there are a few overall tips to follow. They start with answering a simple question: what is it about white wines that red wine drinkers seem to dislike? We’re sure your answers are likely to be one or more of the following:
• White wines are too sweet or too fruity.
• White wines are too light. They don’t have the depth of taste that reds do.
• White wines are too acidic or too tart.

Therefore, it makes sense that if you’re searching for a white wine you’ll like, you should be searching for a white wine that has a full body, more texture, low acidity and has been aged in oak and perhaps even oxidized. We know these words and phrases may be familiar to a seasoned wine drinker, but for those who may not consider themselves to be a wine connoisseur, what exactly do each of these mean? We’ve included some background information on each:

The body of the wine is also often referred to as the “mouth feel” or viscosity. How heavy or light does the wine feel in your mouth? If you’re a fan of red wines, chances are good you like a fuller-bodied wine, because reds tend to be heavier. Alcohol goes hand-in-hand with the body, so heavier wines also are usually more alcoholic. Fortunately, as we mentioned, there are several fuller-bodied white options — you just have to know where to look for them.

The texture is closely tied to the body and alcohol of wine but takes it one step further. Instead of describing it as “heavy” or “light,” texture explores the specifics: creamy, smooth, velvety, oily, waxy, juicy and silky are all words you might use to describe the texture of a wine. They are all physical sensations you sense in your mouth when you drink the wine.

If your wine has a full body and higher alcohol content, it probably has a more complex texture, meaning there are more of these sensations or that the sensations are stronger. In red wines, some of the texture also comes from the tannins found in grape skins, seeds and stems. This natural compound has a bitter taste that is incorporated into the wine throughout the red winemaking process, which involves exposure to the grape skins, seeds and stems for an extended period.

White wines, on the other hand, have low tannins as a result of the winemaking process being different — that is, it does not incorporate the grape skins, seeds and stems in the process. The one exception is orange wine, which is why orange wines frequently appeal to red wine drinkers.

Since the texture is so closely related to body and alcohol content, it’s easy to see that this is another characteristic common in red wines that can be found in whites.

Barrel tannins exist and can be extracted from the oak. If you have white wine, it likely won’t get the tannins from the winemaking process. However, if it’s aged in oak barrels, the amount of tannin will be increased. There are red wines aged in oak as well, so you may notice a familiar taste. We should point out that the tannins found in grape skins and oak barrels are different — the tannins that come from oak are more subtle. However, it still adds to the texture of the wine, which is something red wine drinkers are looking for in a white wine.

Another reason why a white wine aged in oak is a good choice for a red wine lover is that when wines age in wooden barrels, a process known as malolactic fermentation usually occurs, which affects the acidity of the wine.

Nearly all red wines have a lower acidity level as a result of going through the malolactic fermentation process. Technically this isn’t fermentation at all, since it doesn’t use yeast. Instead, through this process, bacteria change the acid in wine from malic acid, which has a tart taste, into lactic acid.

What that means for you is less of the tart taste you may associate with white wines and more of a soft, creamy acid that’s more like milk. Since this is a process the overwhelming majority of red wines go through, this lower acidity and the taste that comes with it usually appeals more to red wine drinkers. However, there are some white wines, like chardonnay and viognier, that go through the same process and, therefore, often appeal to red wine drinkers.

We know the sight of this word makes many wine enthusiasts cringe. “Oxidation” is the word many of us use to describe the tragic deterioration of wine as a result of exposure to too much oxygen over time. Think of a faulty cork or one that hasn’t been tightly secured. However, the reality is that oxygen plays a key role in the winemaking process. Yes, there is absolutely a sweet spot for the amount that is used. And yes, oxidation is still the word used to describe the “blah” bottle of wine you are left with after realizing you had a cracked cork.

Overall, the word “oxidative” is used to describe wine with nutty and savory characteristics. Think raisins, brown apples or hazelnut. These are flavors that red wine drinkers love and which are developed through exposure to some air in a barrel — another benefit that can correlate to aging in oak barrels. To prove just how much of a good thing oxidation can be, the word “oxidized” was named Bon Appetit’s Wine Word of 2017.

Whether we’ve convinced you, as a red wine drinker, to give white wines a try or not, Marketview Liquor has a wide selection of both white wines and red wines that are easy to order online by the bottle or the case and have shipped anywhere in the United States. The best part is that you can choose from select bottles of wine and mix and match a customized case of wine that includes your favorite reds and their white wine partners.

With our extensive online selection, you’re sure to find the wine you want in a price range that will please you. Choose from wines that originate along California’s central coast, in the valleys of France, on the rolling hills of Spain or an island in Greece. Whether you’re searching for a high-end bottle to give as a gift or a case of affordable favorites to stock your pantry, our selection includes them all.

Get started by searching for your perfect white wine pair — or your tried-and-true red wine — on our website.Yes, you read that right. If you enjoy tasting and collecting different wines, you’ll want to keep reading to ensure your eyes and taste buds aren’t wishfully deceiving you. That evening glass of pinot noir accompanying your roasted chicken or the merlot helping you relax from a long day has a surprising amount of health benefits science is just beginning to uncork.

Yet, we also know not all red wines are made equal. While most varieties and blends contain the same basic makeup, the unique chemical compounds, fermentation processes and even the nutrition of the soil where vines were grown play a part in the health benefits you get with each sip.

We’re putting the age-old question of red wine being good or bad for you to bed. Discover exactly what types of red wine are best for your health below.

So Why Is Red Wine Good for You?

There’s more to a glass of red wine than its simple feel-good sips. Though the warm sensations, pleasant notes and earthy richness are enough to justify a glass or two, each glass of red wine carries a complex mix of phytonutrients, or plant chemicals, your body craves to run at its best.

It’s because of some specific phytochemicals types that we can answer just what is it in red wine that is so good for you. A glass of red wine contains the following plant-based, healthy compounds.

Antioxidants are compounds in your body that balance or counteract free radicals. Free radicals are a normal part of life. Your body naturally generates them in response to things like smoke, pollution, exercise, and daily immune system functions. Antioxidants help keep these free radicals in check by combating oxidative stress, a condition that occurs when free radicals run rampant and start hurting your body. Oxidative stress can lead to arthritis, heart disease, cancer, diabetes, cataracts and other dangerous health concerns.

Though you produce some antioxidants on your own, it’s important to consume antioxidants regularly through foods like fruits, vegetables, tea, cocoa and whole grains. Some red wines contain antioxidant compounds that may help regulate free radicals in your body.

Wine flavonoids develop from the seeds and skins of the grapes themselves. They are the largest type of antioxidant found in red wines and are the clear MVP behind their range of health benefits.

The healthiest red wines have high amounts of the antioxidant flavonoid resveratrol. You find resveratrol in its largest concentrations in the skin of grapes and berries, which is why a five-ounce glass of red wine delivers many of the boosts it does — plus that delicious taste. Resveratrol can help regulate angiogenesis, a biological process that can become imbalanced. Excessive angiogenesis may play a part in cancer and autoimmune disorders. Too little has been associated with diabetes.

Besides resveratrol, other flavonoids in red wine that pack a health punch include anthocyanins, catechins and quercetin — and no, you won’t be quizzed on these names later.

Other physical and cognitive benefits of flavonoids include:

Polyphenols deserve their own place on the list of why drinking red wine is good for you. As one of the leading flavonoids in the liquid, polyphenols are inflammation-reducing compounds that have been researched in labs and real-world studies alike. They’re an exciting nutritional compound that additionally lends itself to improved artery function, lower cholesterol and reduced chance of platelet clumps. Polyphenols are more concentrated in red wine than other alcoholic drinks. You can also find them in spices like star anise and cloves and in dark chocolate with 70 percent or higher cocoa concentration. So nibble on an extra dark chocolate bar with your next glass of red wine for some real polyphenol power.

Terminology aside, why exactly is red wine good for you? What does it do inside the body, and how are its effects good for you in the short and long-term? Research has a lot to reveal when it comes to answering the health benefits of red wine:
• Improves cardiovascular health: Perched at the top of red wine’s health list are its association with heart health and overall cardiovascular benefits. Those struggling with high blood pressure and high “bad” cholesterol in particular benefit from the polyphenols, resveratrol and quercetin compounds in most red wines. These compounds combine to create a team of plaque-buildup fighting agents, reduce bad cholesterol from compounding and encourages “good” cholesterol reserve. The wine flavonoid quercetin, in particular, can lower blood pressure by helping to relax arteries and prevent cell stress.
• Anti-inflammatory agents: Chronic inflammation is the bane of many wide-scale health concerns. From autoimmune diseases and blood clots to arthritis and GI-tract disorders, improper spouts of inflammation can cause serious damage across numerous systems in the body. However, one of red wine’s most abundant chemical compounds is resveratrol, an antioxidant found to contain anti-inflammation properties. It deregulates our body’s natural inflammatory responses down to normal levels and helps immune cells differentiate between healthy and unhealthy cells.
• Balances blood sugars: The resveratrol compounds common in red wines are shown to prevent insulin resistance and related metabolic disorders, shielding against diabetes or moderating post-meal blood sugar levels. Because of their imbalanced insulin production, adults with Type 2 diabetes are two to four times as likely to develop cardiovascular complications or heart disease. With diet as the leading factor in managing diabetes and blood-sugar levels, moderate red wine consumption could be a welcome mealtime addition for those exploring diet-based diabetes solutions.
• Promotes a stronger microbiome: Your gut microbiome is the collective name given to the microbes — bacteria, fungi, viruses — that live inside your body and function as a type of organ. Studies demonstrate that increasing your wine intake to one glass of red wine each week may increase the diversity of good microbial bacteria in your microbiome. Good microbes are essential, as too many bad ones can create an unhealthy microbiome, leading to weight gain, high cholesterol and a weaker immune system.
• Prevents certain types of cancers: Red wine is brimming with antioxidants, the chemical compounds that tackle cell-damaging free radicals and boost our immune system. In addition to its anti-inflammatory and insulin-regulating powers, the antioxidant resveratrol also bolsters numerous immune functions, from heightening the effects of vitamin D to aiding in the expressions of certain immune-enhancing genes. On top of this, resveratrol works to stop the progression of tumor cell growth and progression, the bedrock of cancer.
• Decreases cognitive impairment: A recommended serving of daily red wine may also carry certain neuroprotective benefits. Neuroprotective activities are shown to maintain long-term mental acuity and sharpness while protecting against diseases like Alzheimer’s and dementia. Studies have shown that following a balanced Mediterranean diet — with red-wine consumption and lots of fresh fish, veggies, legumes and olive oils — leads to a lowered risk of cognitive decline while aiding in memory retention and focus.
• Maintains healthy weight and fights against obesity: Due to a chemical compound known as piceatannol, red wine has been linked with reducing the ability for fat cells to grow and generate in their early stages. Piceatannol blocks these immature fat cells from binding with your body’s insulin, meaning fat cells can’t communicate properly to signal the start of their growth cycles. What’s more, piceatannol can also shut down certain gene reactions that, when triggered, cause fat formation and storage across your body.
• Promotes positive mental health: A glass of red wine can also play an important part in promoting positive mental health and strong social habits. For example, many people enjoy a glass of wine with friends as a way to soothe social stresses and some anxieties. Studies have found that people who engage in regular social drinking with friends are more likely to have a stronger, more engaged social network within their local community. Most social drinkers who enjoy a glass of wine together also tend to keep the conversation limited to smaller groups, promoting better group conversation. Socialization is an integral part of fighting mental and physical illness.

What Amount of Red Wine Is Good for You?

How much red wine a day is good for you — and does too much reverse all its unique health benefits?

The recommended daily serving of red wine is four to five ounces. For a visual trick, a healthy red wine pour stops when it reaches the widest part of a glass, known as its bell. Likewise, a full bottle of red wine should last a solo drinker five nights to polish off a standard 750-milliliter bottle. Following these simple allotments will effortlessly keep you in that optimal five-ounce serving range.

Men and women have different servings to take into consideration, too. Since men have more of the metabolic enzymes that break down alcohol, a healthy moderate consumption can range from five to ten ounces accompanying a meal. For women, the healthiest wine serving remains four to five ounces.

Overall, red wine is best enjoyed when balanced. When consumed in moderation, red wine carries all the cardiovascular, inflammatory, metabolic and brain boosts described above. Yet it’s true — there can be too much of a good thing. Regularly consuming two-to-three servings of wine daily over extended periods of time can lead to a few health problems, from poor sleep to hypertension, liver damage and pancreas complications.

Generally, women and men older than 65 can enjoy one daily serving of alcohol — including wine, beer, or distilled spirits — per day, while men 65 and younger may tolerate up to two as a part of a nutritious and balanced routine. Women who are pregnant or people with a history of alcoholism, liver or pancreas disease or a weak heart should avoid drinking alcohol. Consult your doctor if you’re currently taking any medications or have a specific health condition you’re unsure about.

Types of Red Wine That Are Good for You

There are over a few dozen varieties of red wines, ranging from crisp, light-bodied gamays to the robust, fortified sweetness of ports. Your favorite red wine likely falls somewhere in between, though does it land on the list of the healthiest red wines on the market?

We’ve put together a list of what kinds of red wines are good for you and the all-important reasons why, with the overall healthiest red wine being Pinot Noir. These explanations are backed by research and chemistry, and will make it all the easier for you to grab a bottle — or two, or a case — on your next wine run or order.

Malbec grapes have very thick skins compared to most wine-grape varieties. These thick skins ensure they’re loaded with resveratrol antioxidants that play a key role in cardiovascular and immune health. And when we say loaded, we mean loaded.

Malbecs contain on average four times the antioxidant content as popular merlots and nearly twice as much as cabernet sauvignons. The reasons for this has as much to do with their grape’s seed cultivation as it does geography.

Malbecs are most famously grown in Argentina and Chile, where unique weather interactions between warm Pacific Ocean air and the cold, mountain chills wafting from the Andes combine to create ideal temperature and moisture patterns. This results in a particularly dense soil with less sulfate, affecting both Malbec’s taste and its healthfulness.

Malbecs have a smooth, black cherry and blackberry flavor with a silky pour and darker, mocha-like finish. They’re famous for their magenta rims and South American reinvigoration, where the most prized and healthiest Malbecs are sourced.

Pinot Noir contains a healthy dose of several antioxidants, including anthocyanins and procyanidins, making it one of the best red wines to lower cholesterol. Four ounces of Pinot Noir also delivers roughly 640 micrograms of resveratrol, which is more than most red wines. Resveratrol helps protect against diabetes, cancer, Alzheimer’s, and heart disease.

In addition to its massive concentration of resveratrol, pinot noir grapes also begin their fermentation with some of the lowest amounts of natural sugar. This fermenting process allows for a lower overall sugar level and calorie count per glass, making Pinot Noir a particularly good choice for those craving red wine but watching their sugar intake.

Pinot noir is one of the most popular red wines in the world. With common, flavorful notes of almonds, plums, and berries and a bright acidity, pinot noirs are also easy to pair with any meal, as they’re one of the most versatile red wines. They’re a staple at dinner parties and dates, wine tours and solo pours to cap off a long day, and are cultivated on nearly every wine-producing continent.

Cabernet Sauvignon is one of the most popular wines worldwide. Likewise, it’s the most planted wine grape in the world, with over 800,000 acres dedicated to its name. Now, that planting and purchasing popularity is made even wiser due to the variety’s health benefits.

Cabernet sauvignon like the Canyon Road Cabernet Sauvignon / 750mL is the cousin to a medley of older grape seedlings and were cultivated for durability. They have highly unique aroma compounds, ones that hint toward their select mix of flavonoids. Their particular flavonoid combination brings with it all the same cardiovascular and artery relief other blends do, yet cabernet sauvignons go the extra step in stimulating the production of a protein called the amyloid precursor, a big player in neural cell health.

As if that wasn’t enough, cabernet sauvignon actually contains a chemical that kills certain strains of cavity-causing bacteria. While you still have to watch out for the proverbial teeth staining wine can cause, this chemical ensures the problematic bacteria don’t cause as much damage to tooth enamel.

Sirahs, or shirazes, blend an interesting mix of fruity sweetness with dark licorice notes and peppery currants. This one-of-a-kind flavor stems from their tightly grown grapes on the vines, bred since their origins for compactness.

Petite sirahs produce a huge amount of natural tannins, even if their name might suggest otherwise. These tannins come loaded with the antioxidants thiol and resveratrol and create the rather dense and hardy taste petite sirahs are known for. Petite sirahs will also deliver the heart-healthy and valuable procyanidin compounds necessary to give red wine its cardiovascular and metabolic effects. Overall, they’re easy to find, cost-effective to buy and a solid high-five for your heart.

This rustic wine grape type is a sister to those turned into cabernets. Made from the same Tannat-variety grapes, Madiran is named after its area of origin in southwest France but has started to be cultivated in countries like Uruguay and Argentina, where cool mountain temperatures mirror the conditions of its French-Pyrenees home.

With heavier notes of dark chocolate, cranberries and allspice, Madiran red wines contain soaring amounts of the antioxidant procyanidins. Procyanidins are critical in the healthy blood-vessel functions and heart-disease preventing qualities of red wine. Madiran also has a slightly longer-than-average fermentation process, which is where its high-procyanidin levels are partially attributed to. And as one of the older cultivated varieties on the market, adding Madirans to your collection can do as much for your reputation as a wine connoisseur as it does for your health.

This red-wine variety with Italian origins remains an overlooked regional delicacy, with a smaller bottle circulation and awareness even among wine aficionados. If its health benefits were more widely known, perhaps you’d see Barbera across more dinner-table spreads.

Because Barbera grape blends tend to have a high, almost pucker-worthy acidity if untreated, they work best aged in oak barrels to soften and round out its bright notes. This aging is also the reason why Barbera wines make the list as one of the healthiest red wines around. Research has shown cooler ripening and fermentation methods, like those utilized with this grape type in northern Italian regions, increases resveratrol grape concentrations. What’s more, the elevation levels where Barbera grapes thrive have also been shown to produce higher and more concentrated resveratrol amounts than even the same grapes grown at lower elevations.

The soil in heavy Barbera-producing regions further lends itself to the wine’s unique, healthy composition. Highly calcareous soil has been shown to encourage higher resveratrol concentrations in both grapes and accent berries used to blend many Barbera wines.

In fact, a five-ounce recommended pour of Barbera wines grown in these soils and fermented in cooled conditions can contain increased concentrations of resveratrol compared to non-calcareous and neutral soil. These concentrations are rivaled only by pinot noirs and some malbecs.

The Cannonau, or Grenache, grape is extremely high in resveratrol. Originating from the Italian island of Sardinia, Cannonau grapes are thin-skinned black grapes that produce many varieties and blends of sweet and dry wine, called . These wines are characterized by a warm, velvety berry flavor that ranges from fruity and light to sapid and dark.

The native grape that produces these wines is the most widespread and popular grape variety in Sardinia and one of the oldest in the Mediterranean. This fruit generates high concentrations of due to its late ripening and harvesting periods compared to other grapes. As these grapes develop their thick skins, their heart-health compounds increase, contributing to the health of those who drink their wines.

Because they’re often the last grapes to be harvested, Cannonau grapes tend to produce wines with low acidity and medium to high alcohol content. Though many provide anti-inflammatory and antioxidant properties, Cannonau wines stand out among the rest with a much for the heart and brain. Small doses of this wine also introduce flavonoids to help clear arteries, and .

The resveratrol levels in Cannonau wines alone are enough to convince most to pick up a glass. These wines are positively associated with a — when drunk in moderation — by fighting the formation of plaque in the brain. Some Cannonau varieties have even been proven to , as well.

Besides resveratrol, other flavonoids in red wine that pack a health punch include and — and no, you won’t be quizzed on these names later. Their noteworthy health benefits include:
• Reducing symptoms associated with diabetes, arthritis and Alzheimer’s disease

Cannonau wines are also DOC-certified (designation of controlled origin), which means they’ve met specific production, aging and quality standards. In addition to their health benefits, Cannonau grapes’ home of Sardinia is known as one of the . The people living in these zones tend to have a much longer life expectancy and prosper with better health and relationships — partly due to their red wine consumption.

Though this is an exciting thought for wine enthusiasts, you don’t need to consume too many Cannonau-rich wines to reap their many benefits.

Is Sweet Red Wine Good For You?

As a rule of thumb when considering what kind of red wine is good for you, dry blends over sweet varieties are the safer, heart-healthy pick.

That’s because red wines with dryer notes and flavor profiles carry much higher levels of flavonoids, polyphenols and other compounds necessary for cardiovascular and anti-inflammatory health properties. It’s also these flavonoids and antioxidants that accelerate the body’s absorption of good HDL cholesterol while reducing or eliminating bad LDL cholesterol, making red wine a good choice for lowering bad cholesterol.

Red wine varieties with that desired dry profile run the gamut of cabernet sauvignon, cabernet franc, malbec, and merlot. On the other hand, notoriously sweet red wines like zinfandels, maderias, moscatos, and any commercial “red blend” will almost always contain lower flavonoid concentrations — though they’re still delicious, with a definite time and place at the dinner table!

On the most end of the sweet scale sits ports and anything labeled a dessert wine. Ports, with their liquor additions and fortifications, alter the entire chemical composition of the wine, as well as many of its metabolic processes. And dessert wines are, well, for dessert. They’re fundamentally sugar-forward, with a fermentation process meant to minimize acidity and bring about the highest notes of fruit and sweeteners.

You don’t need a massive budget or a private sommelier to hunt down the best red wines for you. When it comes to shopping for the healthiest red wines, all it takes is a little research and a lot of curiosity — and taste-testing — to find what works best for you.
• Don’t be afraid to be adventurous: Step outside of recognized names and brands. There’s a reason for the dozens of red-grape varieties available on the market and the vineyards that tend to them, plus hundreds of years of history to back it all up. You don’t have to trade habit for health when it comes to red wines.
• Choose smaller wine brands and companies: Smaller vineyards often don’t have mass production facilities or practices, and some specialize in making sure their wines have all those complex and beneficial polyphenols, flavonoids and antioxidants.
• Ask an expert: You’ll have no trouble finding a wine expert at your local spirits store, someone who takes pride and interest in knowing the ins-and-outs of their products. Likewise, use opportunities at restaurants, wineries or even area tourist shops to inquire about the red wines on the menu or display. It’s likely they’re there for a reason.

We at Marketview Liquor don’t see wine and spirits as a business — we see it as a passion. We’re proud of the extensive line of red wines we offer, both in-house and online, from local and national bottles to top-point reds sourced from award-winning international vineyards. See Marketview’s red wine selection for yourself today, or wine chat with one of our experts for insider knowledge, tips and deals.

Have more questions about how to indulge in your favorite drink while staying health-conscious? We’ve got answers on some of the healthiest wines in the world and how to approach wine in a way that makes sense for your body.

Is It Good to Drink Red Wine Every Day?

As we’ve shown in this article, there are plenty of benefits to having a daily glass of red wine. In many places in the world, it’s almost expected that you enjoy a glass of red once a day. The trick is ensuring you’re drinking in moderation so that you can get the benefits without overindulging and reaping the more negative aspects associated with drinking alcohol.

Over time, drinking more than a serving a day can increase your risk of high blood pressure, weight gain and heart problems, among other issues. It can also make you more likely to engage in risky behavior and make poor decisions like driving under the influence.

Which Is the Healthiest Red Wine?

While there are a lot of healthy red wines out there, most of which go above and beyond the health benefits of white and rosé blends, Pinot Noir is generally considered the healthiest red wine. Of all the red wines, this variety holds one of the highest resveratrol levels and lowest sugar content, providing a low-calorie, antioxidant-rich solution to wind down a stressful day.

Which Wine Is Good for Health?

When exploring the wine varietals that can improve your health, find the ones with the highest resveratrol content. Most blends with high resveratrol levels come from grapes with thick, hardy skin, allowing the fermentation process to bring out more antioxidant power. So, if you’re really interested in getting the most from your nightly glass, do your research and explore grapes with thick skins.

It’s interesting to note that drinking any wine, or any alcohol at all, can provide some health benefits. Some studies have deduced that drinking alcohol moderately can raise levels of HDL, which is the good form of cholesterol. It may also reduce the risk of blood clots and artery damage while enhancing the lining of your blood vessels.

The evidence indicates that even if the healthiest red wines aren’t your preference, there’s a good chance that whatever alcohol you’re drinking in moderation can aid your health a bit. Just know that if you want to get the most from your alcoholic beverages, red wine is the best place to start.

Why Is Red Wine the Healthiest?

Compared to white and rosé wines, red wine consumption is healthier because it uses more grape skins in the fermentation process. Since most of the antioxidant benefits come from the grape’s skin, the higher concentration in red wine naturally comes with more health benefits. And while all alcohols may be able to provide some of these benefits, you’ll get the most by drinking red wine.

What Is the World’s Healthiest Wine?

While Pinot Noir is thought to be one of the healthiest red wines, Cannonau wines have some immense benefits that cannot be overlooked. Between its place of origin in the beautiful Mediterranean and its intense concentration of resveratrol, antioxidants and other compounds, this is a wine variety you cannot miss in your exploration of heart-healthy wines.

Although the rest of our selection of healthy red wines can bring some variety to your daily drink, be sure to keep some Cannonau in your repertoire to ensure you can reap the benefits of the healthiest wine in the world.

What Red Wine Has the Least Sugar?

The good news here is that our healthiest wines also generally have the least sugar. If the sugar content of your wine is especially important to you, keep these tips in mind:
• Drink dry wines: By their nature, dry wines have less residual sugar than sweet selections.
• Avoid dessert wines: Wines with the words “dessert,” “ice wine,” “late harvest” and “dolce” in their title tend to be sweeter and have higher sugar content.

Which Red Wine Has the Most Antioxidants?

As the healthiest red wines, Pinot Noir and Cannonau take the prize yet again as the red wines with the most antioxidants. Still, almost all red wines have more antioxidants than other kinds of wine, as the inclusion of grape skins in their fermentation process allows more antioxidants, flavonoids and polyphenols to find their way into the final product.

Order Healthy Wine to Your Door With Marketview Liquor

Who knew delicious wine could actually be good for you? Browse our selection at Marketview today!When you go out to your favorite Italian restaurant, you may find yourself reading the list of available wines with a sense of frustration. While wine labels may appear to provide an overload of information at times, all the text on a bottle of wine is crucial in helping you decide which drink is best for you.

Whether you’re an avid wine lover or a beginner to the drinking scene who feels a new sense of admiration for the bubbly substance, shopping for the right wine is something any wine lover struggles with at one point or another. Reading all the labels on the front of the wine can be overwhelming, but it doesn’t have to be.

With a little know-how and understanding on how to read wine labels, you’ll be on your way to picking your next savory drink with ease.

If you’ve ever wondered where your wine comes from, who made it, or how much alcohol percentage is inside each serving, you can likely find all the answers to your inquiries right on the front of the wine bottle’s label.

While some information may seem superfluous or unnecessary, other aspects of the label are necessary for helping you find the perfect bottle for your flavor, mixes, or occasion. Here are a few meaningful factors to look for.

1. The Name or Maker of the Wine

Perhaps the most crucial piece of information to decipher on a bottle of wine is its producer. Often, the name takes up a sizeable portion of the label or uses the most noticeable font. Foreign producers of wine may place the name of the wine in smaller writing at the top.

The name of the wine informs you who is producing the drink in your bottle, which can determine the resulting quality and flavor. When you find a sparkler worthy of putting in your wine collection, knowing the producer also helps you find similar wines produced by the same maker.

If you want to know the age of the contents of your bottle of wine, the vintage label will provide you with this information.

The vintage date provides insight into the quality of the grapes harvested during a particular year. If you find the producer of a bottle of wine has a more flavorful wine during one specific year, this knowledge allows you to choose beverages produced within this particular timeframe.

If you find yourself going to an Italian restaurant and desiring a sip of the same wine within your own home, you might want to search for a wine that was produced in the same region.

The label that indicates a wine’s region can be as broad as the country that harvested the ingredients or as specific as the vineyard where the manufacturers produced the grapes.

Many wine drinkers find a more specified indication of the location produces a wine with higher quality. For instance, a wine label that states the specific vineyard as opposed to the country of origin indicates a more refined and premium quality.

Now that you know how to decipher the labels that line your bottles of wine, it’s time to choose the right sparkling beverage for you! We invite you to browse our varied selection of wine varieties online today. No matter what category your favorite flavors fall into, we have a wine crafted for your preferences.What better way to celebrate the New Year than with a delicious sip of indulgent wine? From classy red wines to more luxurious Champagnes, make sure you don’t skimp this holiday season when it comes to the liquid that lines your cups and glasses. Plus, you can’t have a toast without a glass of wine or Champagne to commemorate the occasion!

This ultimate guide to what Champagne to buy for New Year’s Eve will help you start your year right. Discover why we drink Champagne on New Year’s Eve, what Champagne is good for New Year’s Eve and the best New Year’s Eve Champagne cocktail recipes. You’ll also learn how to choose the best type of Champagne for New Year’s and the New Year’s Champagne drink recipes that will get you in the celebratory spirit.

Why Do We Drink Champagne on New Year’s Eve?

The tradition of popping bottles of Champagne to celebrate dates all the way back to the 16th century when European aristocrats would pour glasses of the bubbly beverage at their royal parties. At the time, only the elite could afford to drink Champagne. However, the drink’s popularity at celebratory occasions persisted until Champagne became less expensive and more accessible in the 1800s.

Once the price of Champagne declined, wine sellers began marketing it to lower- and middle-class members who still thought of the beverage as an aspirational drink. Visually, Champagne overflows with bubbles — symbolically, with joy and abundance — making it perfect for a toast. Although many customers still could not afford to drink Champagne regularly, they could afford to buy bottles for special occasions.

As time went on, Champagne became the centerpiece of numerous secular rituals that replaced formerly religious practices. For example, christening a ship with the “holy water” of Champagne became a substitute for having a priest present. This secular ritual, in particular, often involved simply smashing a bottle of Champagne on the bow of the ship for good luck and safe travels.

Eventually, winemakers began to develop the modern-day technology for bottling carbonated wine. Namely, Dom Perignon added two safety features to its Champagne packaging to prevent bottle explosions — a rope snare to keep the cork in place and thicker glass so the bottles could withstand the pressure of holding a carbonated beverage. These improved Champagne bottles proved to be perfect for popping open on special occasions.

Champagne sales continued to boom throughout the Industrial Revolution, quickly becoming a staple of celebrations everywhere. To this day, popping Champagne symbolizes a joyful occasion. In particular, New Year’s Eve is the perfect occasion to pull out all the stops and flourish your aspirations with this bubbly drink. For many people, the sound of a Champagne bottle popping has come to signify the official start of the New Year.

What Is the Best Champagne for New Year’s Eve?

Now that you’re familiar with the backstory of how Champagne rose to become the holiday’s signature drink, it’s time to discuss what a good Champagne for New Year’s Eve is. Many people think that the most expensive bottle must be the highest quality bottle, but that is not always the case. Just like any other commodity, Champagne is typically sold for a price the market is willing to pay.

While prestigious brands do produce excellent bottles of Champagne, their prices are often marked up purely for the luxury and financial prosperity the brands’ labels have come to represent. Many people indulge in Champagne from these brands if they want to drink well and show the world they are living large — much like wearing a top designer’s label. However, you can find plenty of Champagne bottles that carry the same quality wine for a far lower cost.

Another common misconception about choosing good Champagne is that every sparkling wine is Champagne. In reality, Champagne refers solely to sparkling wine from Champagne, a specific region in France famous for growing Champagne grapes. Authentic Champagne from this region tastes a bit more delicious and special because it comes from such a distinctive and unique place, making it difficult for other sparkling wines to rival.

Still, other sparkling wines, like Italian Prosecco and Spanish Cava, can be great values. These types of sparkling wine are usually much less expensive than top-shelf Champagne with a nearly unnoticeable step down in quality. If you are on a tight budget this New Year’s Eve, these variations of sparkling wine can be an excellent way to stock up on wine for your party guests without overspending.

Finally, you typically don’t have to worry about whether or not a bottle is an older vintage when you’re purchasing sparkling wine. In general, sparkling wines are usually non-vintage, meaning reserve wine from previous years is blended with newer wine to produce a consistent house style. Vintage Champagnes are made only a few times per decade because the weather for growing grapes in Champagne can be uncooperative. These wines are held for a few years before being put up for sale, allowing them to develop more complexity, which some wine connoisseurs prefer.

While expensive bottles or older bottles might be more highly touted than other varietals, you don’t have to purchase the most popular Champagne for New Year’s Eve. Choosing a good Champagne for New Year’s Eve should be based entirely on your personal preferences and what you appreciate in a bottle of wine.

From high-quality value buys to classic Champagnes, there’s nothing like enjoying an eclectic bottle of festive fizz. Whether you’re looking for one bottle to splurge on for an intimate, low-key celebration or a wine you can keep pouring all night long, Marketview Liquor has the perfect bottles of Champagne and sparkling wine to start the New Year with a bang.

Best Wines for New Year’s Eve

Looking for a bit more variety than just Champagne when it comes to the best wine to ring in the New Year? Marketview Liquor has you covered. We’ve rounded up a list of our favorite New Year wines to help you celebrate like a true connoisseur:
• Red wine: Made with the juice of dark-skinned grapes, red wine varieties are sure to appeal to those who love a variety of acid types, including malic and tartaric. Whether you’re looking for a red wine grape with hints of coffee and violets, an array of fruity notes or some spice, red wine offers it all. As a true crowd-pleaser, red wine will quickly become your go-to drink when hosting holiday parties or any other type of gathering.
• Fruit wine and sangria: Fruit wines have become all the rage in recent years, especially when it comes to large gatherings and celebrations. With a vast pool of flavor profiles for you to choose from, fruit wines are sure to delight even the most sophisticated palates. When you taste a fruit wine, you are sampling the best fruit a region has to offer, from berries to tropical varieties to citrus fruits.
• Hard cider: If you’re looking for the perfect beverage to accompany your night, it’s time to reach for full-bodied, flavorful ciders. Hard ciders are packed with spices, cranberries and a heaping of New Year’s Eve cheer. You can count on this festive drink to help you and your party guests ring in the New Year with style.

Ultimately, what type of wine you get for New Year’s Eve is completely up to you. Although Champagne is the traditional New Year’s drink of choice, you should purchase whatever variety of wine you and your guests will enjoy the most. In addition to Champagne and sparkling wine, all of the wines listed above will be sure to help you have a happy New Year.

If you want to ring in the New Year right, you need some New Year’s Eve Champagne recipes that will wow your party guests. In this section, you’ll discover a list of the best Champagne cocktails for New Year’s Eve, along with a few morning Champagne recipes for New Year’s brunch the next day.

When it comes to the best New Year’s Champagne cocktails, it can be hard to beat the classics. A simple Champagne cocktail is easy to prepare and often steals the show at celebrations. All you have to do to get your New Year’s Eve party off to a roaring start is drop a sugar cube into a flute of Champagne and marvel at the fountain of bubbles it creates. In addition to making your glass sparkle, this Champagne cocktail will taste delightful.

Another easy mixed drink to prepare for New Year’s Eve is a Prosecco cocktail. This cocktail is sophisticated and classy, featuring citrus notes and plenty of bubbles. By adding an orange twist to your glass of Prosecco, you can have a fancy cocktail in mere minutes. The fruity flavors underlying the stronger taste of Prosecco make this cocktail taste like a nighttime version of a mimosa.

This cocktail recipe couldn’t be easier — just combine Chambord and Champagne. These two drinks are a dynamic duo that play off of each other’s characteristics well. The raspberry taste of Chambord gives the bubbles of Champagne an extra flavor boost, creating a delicious and sophisticated cocktail. You’ll love sipping on this bubbly, sweet and tart drink as you anticipate the New Year.

Making a Kir Royale offers you another opportunity to make an easy cocktail that still feels festive and refined. This renowned French cocktail centers around sparkling wine and black currant liqueur, resulting in the perfect balance of bubbles and berries. The simplicity of a Kir Royale makes the drink’s fruit-filled flavors shine all the more.

The St. Germain Champagne cocktail was practically made for New Year’s Eve celebrations. The holidays are the perfect time to uncork your fancy bottle of St. Germain and stir it with some Champagne or sparkling wine. This mixed drink combines floral, tangy, botanical and bubbly notes all at once, making it both sophisticated and refreshing to sip.

A French 75 cocktail might just be the most sophisticated and refreshing Champagne cocktail recipe for New Year’s Eve you could choose. French 57 cocktails are festive, bubbly, tangy and a bit botanical. The best part about this mixed drink is it requires only a few simple ingredients. All you need for your French 75 cocktails is Champagne, gin, lemon juice and sugar.

A bellini is an Italian sparkling cocktail that is full of beautiful fruity flavors. If you want to make a delicious bellini, simply combine Prosecco with peach puree or nectar. The sweetness of the peaches pairs magnificently with the bubbles of the Prosecco, resulting in a mixed drink you won’t be able to get enough of.

Of all the Champagne New Year’s drink recipes, the mimosa might be the most iconic. If you plan to have a boozy brunch on New Year’s Day, you need to make this tart, sweet and bubbly cocktail. Give your mimosas a sweeter, more nuanced flavor by mixing Processo instead of Champagne with your orange juice. To make your mimosa a bit bolder, pour a dash of orange liqueur into the glass and stir.

Put an extra festive spin on your traditional mimosa by adding a splash of pomegranate juice. Mixing the sweet, tart taste of pomegranate with the citrus notes of orange juice and Champagne’s airy bubbles results in one of the most satisfying holiday cocktails you could make. You might even want to serve this wintertime cocktail at your New Year’s Eve party the night before brunch.

Another way to make your mimosas more seasonal is to add cranberry juice. While this tart winter berry can make any of your New Year’s Champagne cocktails feel more festive, cranberry goes especially well with the subtly sweet orange juice already in a mimosa. A cranberry mimosa is a brilliant New Year’s brunch drink that is crisp, bubbly and bright red. You will have fun both mixing and drinking this unique cocktail.

If you need to make a bottle of Champagne stretch until midnight, consider making a simple holiday punch by mixing the bubbly with some fruit juices and other fizzy beverages. As long as you have something sweet and carbonated available, your New Year’s Eve party guests will be in good spirits.

When to Drink Champagne on New Year’s Eve

If you plan on preparing Champagne cocktails for New Year’s, you don’t have to wait until midnight to pop the bottles of bubbly. Feel free to serve your New Year’s Champagne cocktails all night long. However, you will want to ensure that you have enough Champagne left to fill everyone’s glass for a midnight toast.

Knowing how much Champagne you need for a New Year’s toast can be tricky. If you are serving dinner at your New Year’s Eve celebration, the general rule of thumb is to assume two glasses of wine per guest. Each guest will need at least one additional glass for the toast, so get enough wine that everyone at your gathering can have at least three glasses.

Typically, you can get about five glasses of wine out of each standard-sized bottle. Given these numbers, you can multiply the number of guests attending your party by three, then divide that number by five to figure out how much Champagne to get for New Year’s Eve. However, keep in mind that these numbers may fluctuate depending on how much your guests enjoy wine.

What to Serve With Champagne on New Year’s Eve

Whether you’re serving Champagne on its own or an array of Champagne mixed drinks for New Year’s Eve, you will want to pair the drinks with foods that complement their flavors. Creating a menu inspired by the Champagne and cocktails you plan on having at your New Year’s Eve gathering will ensure the characteristics of each play well together. Coordinating your drink options and food selection will enhance the overall meal greatly.

If you’re not quite a culinary expert when it comes to food and wine pairings, you will find a few suggestions for each course below to help get you started.

New Year’s Eve was made for small bites and sampling a myriad of dishes. Some New Year’s Eve parties serve appetizers only. Whether you plan on serving multiple courses or not, here’s what you need to know about matches your appetizers to your Champagne:
• Stick with fried foods: Champagne and sparkling wines go extremely well with fried foods because the light, delicate bubbles balance out the heavy richness of the fried food. Prosecco pairs exceptionally well with fried fare. Specifically, try serving fried finger foods like hush puppies or fried ravioli.
• Sprinkle on the salt: Appetizers that lean more toward the saltier side go well with the refreshing tastes of Champagne and sparkling wines. For example, deviled eggs or cured meats are great to serve alongside glasses of bubbly.
• Make mini quiches: This classic handheld party appetizer actually goes quite well with Champagne and sparkling wines. The rich and savory flavors of mini quiches will offset the sweetness of what’s in your flute beautifully.

If you are planning on serving an entree at your New Year’s Eve celebration this year, check out these Champagne pairing tips before finalizing your menu:
• Focus on savory flavors: Because Champagne and sparkling wines tend to be rather sugary, you will want the flavors and density of your New Year’s Eve entrees to balance out that airy sweetness. Main courses like a rich short rib, spicy chorizo tacos or a crisp roast duck are perfect examples of potential pairings.
• Serve seafood: Seafood dishes, in particular, go well with Champagne and sparkling wines because they typically contain concentrated flavors of umami, which is an intensely savory taste. Along with being savory, seafood is often salty, which also pairs well with bubbles. While caviar is a classic partner for Champagne, feel free to get creative and serve your Champagne cocktails with shrimp, scallops or even sushi.
• Cook with your wine: If you really want to marry your dinner selections with your drinks, choose a recipe that calls for using a bit of the wine in the dish. Naturally, sipping on that same Champagne or sparkling wine alongside the finished entree will help bring out the dish’s flavors more.

Because Champagne and sparkling wines are already naturally sweet, it is important to choose desserts without loads of sugar. Try to find dessert recipes that call for limited added sugar and will not taste overly sweet when served with bubbly. Here are some suggestions for selecting the perfect New Year’s Eve dessert:
• Feature fruits: Fruit-based dessert recipes are key to ensuring your closing course isn’t too sweet because the natural sweetness of fruit eliminates the need to add lots of extra sugar. Citrus desserts are especially delicious with Champagne because their tart undertones temper the sweet, floral flavors of the wine nicely. Consider making a fruity dessert such as a lemon shortcake, a pear custard pie or even something as simple as chocolate-dipped strawberries.
• Incorporate dark chocolate: Dark chocolate is an excellent flavor for pairing with Champagne or sparkling wine because its bitter qualities go perfectly with the wine’s sweetness and bubbles. The culinary trend of sprinkling dark chocolate with sea salt can enhance this dessert pairing even more. Try serving a salted dark chocolate tart or a dark chocolate mousse cake this New Year’s Eve.
• Bake bite-sized sweets: Making your desserts miniature is a surefire way to limit their sweetness. Plus, many people prefer taking smaller samples of multiple desserts at holiday parties. Set out handheld desserts like macarons, tiny pastries or even leftover Christmas cookies to help your New Year’s Eve party guests avoid a sugar rush.

Browse the Champagne and Sparkling Wine From Marketview Liquor and Order Online Today

If you want to have a fun New Year’s Eve celebration, a nice bottle of wine and a gathering of your closest friends and family is all you need. You can find the perfect bottle of Champagne, sparkling wine or any other type of wine you want at Marketview Liquor. The expansive selection of wine at Marketview Liquor includes a wide variety of shades, regions, fragrances, tasting notes and more.

No matter what type of wine you’re looking for this holiday season, we can help you find a bottle you will love. Once you’ve picked your wine, we will ship your order directly to you, so you don’t have to add another errand to your holiday to-do list.

Browse the Champagne and sparkling wine available from Marketview Liquor and place your order online today.You may be accustomed to pouring yourself a standard glass of wine. In fact, a few drips of chardonnay in your cup may just be enough to hit the spot. But when it comes to choosing the right bottle to fulfill your beverage cravings, do you know what distinguishes the different sized wine bottles to select the best fit and quantity for you?

When it comes to wine, size is significant. You don’t want to order your favorite Pinot Noir in a Samlanaza and hope for the best. Choosing the right size for your drink is crucial, especially when it comes to wine.\

The average bottle of wine size equates to roughly six standard glasses of wine. The typical wine bottle size provides just enough of a favored wine without offering too much — or too little — of your drink in each bottle. The standard wine bottle size is typically the default bottle option with 750 ml of wine or six glasses of wine.

The half/demi bottle is 375 ml or approximately half the size of a standard bottle and is ideal for anyone who wants to buy a more extensive variety of drinks in smaller sizes as a sampler option.

Not quite sure you’ll like a new drink? A piccolo or split glass may just be the fit for you. With only 187.5 ml of wine such as La Marca Prosecco – 187ml, this single-serving glass provides you with just enough substance to decide whether you want to opt for a more substantial quantity next time around.

Bottles Crafted for a Few More Sips

Sometimes, you need a bottle that provides more than just the standard amount of wine. Whether you want to stock up on your favorite sparkling delight or find yourself planning a future get-together or event that necessitates more significant quantities of glasses to fill, you’re sure to find your fit with one of the various wine bottle sizes available on the market.

Even ancient civilizations enjoyed their wine with a little added variety! The name for each bottle size stems from the title of biblical kings interestingly enough. It’s no wonder with a taste this delicious, these bubbly beverages found their way into the hearts of our earliest ancestors while retaining their significance and value up into the present day.

The Different Sizes of Wine Bottles

Not sure which glass is the right fit for you? Check out our overview of the different wine bottle sizes along with the total glasses of wine in each.

Choosing the right size for your wine is simple, but picking the perfect drink to fulfill your wine cravings is even more straightforward!

At Marketview Liquor, we provide premium wine and liquor beverages you can pop open with the guaranteed satisfaction of a delightful flavor awaiting inside. Be sure to browse our varied selection of wines online today to choose which drink best suits you.If you’re not a wine connoisseur, it’s hard to keep up with all of the different flavors of wine, let alone the intricacies of the production process that organic, sustainable and biodynamic wines entail. But that doesn’t mean we aren’t interested — according to research by the Pew Research Center, 71% of Americans are making purchasing decisions based on nutrition and ingredients labels. Furthermore, 68% of Americans have purchased organic food products within the past month, and they are choosing organic for a variety of benefits.

Who doesn’t want to pair their organic food with an equally clean and responsibly produced glass of wine? That’s what motivated us to hash out the details of organic, sustainable and biodynamic wines — so you can educate yourself on the differences among the three and find the perfect drink to pair with your organic food. Before we get into the specifics of each of these types of wines, it’s important to understand a few simple steps in the winemaking process:
• Growing and harvesting: Grapes are grown in a vineyard and harvested for use in winemaking.
• Adding ingredients and fermenting: Yeast and other agricultural ingredients are added, in addition to non-agricultural ingredients, in this part of the winemaking process.
• Storing and transporting: Wine is stored until it’s ready to be transported to a distributor.

In the simplest terms, organic wines, sustainable wines and biodynamic wines are different because of the way the vineyards grow and harvest the grapes to create the wine. The added ingredients differ as well.

If you’ve done any research on organic wines, you know that the emphasis is almost always on what organic wine does without — pesticides and other chemicals. But have you ever wondered what takes the place of these chemicals to keep the pests off of the grapes used to make your wine? The answer is animals and insects. By introducing beneficial insects to the crop, growers can control their number of harmful bugs. Chickens and sheep may also be left to roam a vineyard to help fight not only the bad insects but also the weeds.

Organic vineyards also have natural alternatives for creating healthy soils. To replace synthetic fertilizers, they rely on compost and cover crops, which add nutrients to the soil over time. The cover crops are planted in between the rows of vines. They attract insects that are good for the soil and plants and provide additional support against erosion. Combined, compost and cover crops provide a nutrient-rich soil that’s perfect for growing grapes.

One of the main factors to consider regarding organic wines is that they are not permitted to have any sulfites added. Sulfites are extremely common in winemaking. The term refers to sulfur oxide, a preservative with antioxidant and antibacterial properties that is often added to prevent oxidization. The bottom line is that sulfites play a key role in the aging of wine. Without it, you have an organic wine with a short shelf life.

The next logical question is “what if I like the organic, but don’t want to lose the flavor that comes with aging?” There are wines “made with organic grapes” that could be the perfect solution for you. While these wines don’t carry the USDA organic certification, to be able to make this claim on the label, the winemaking process must be the same. The only difference is the addition of sulfites, which gives you the aging flavor and shelf life that many wine enthusiasts love.

To fully understand organic wine, you need to know the creation process:
• Growing and harvesting: Grapes are grown in a vineyard that is free of most synthetic fertilizers and pesticides — and has been for three years before the harvest of the organic grapes. The grapes are not grown or handled using any genetically modified organisms (GMO). Organic wines are certified by the USDA and face the same strict regulations as any food products that carry the USDA organic certification. Since it is an alcoholic beverage, it’s also subject to regulations by the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau.
• Adding ingredients and fermenting: All yeast and other agricultural ingredients added to the wine are organically grown as well. Non-agricultural ingredients are not permitted to make up more than 5% of the product and must be included on the National List of Allowed and Prohibited Substances. No sulfites can be used.
• Storing and transporting: Wine and all ingredients and equipment used in the winemaking process are stored in an area that has been certified by the USDA to ensure there is no exposure to any non-organic products that could jeopardize the certification.

Sustainable wine companies are focused on minimizing the effect their winemaking process has on the environment. They prioritize conservation, preservation, social responsibility and economic feasibility.

It’s great to think that the vineyard your wine originated from was utilizing sustainable practices, but what does that look like for a vineyard? Perhaps the most obvious is in the use of water and energy. In dry seasons, irrigation may be needed to ensure the grapes are growing to their full potential. In those cases, a drip irrigation system is used — giving the grapes just the water they need and no more, minimizing water use.

Energy efficiency comes in all shapes and sizes in a vineyard. One example is the use of solar energy to power everything from irrigation pumps to the vineyard entrance gates. Another is night harvesting. By harvesting at night or in the early-morning hours, in the cooler temperatures, there’s less need for energy-intensive refrigeration. As a bonus, night harvesting helps grapes retain their shape and acidity, which are essential for your glass of wine.

Winemakers vary their process when it comes to creating sustainable wine.
• Growing and harvesting: Grapes are grown in a vineyard that prioritizes water and energy conservation, ecosystem and wildlife preservation, and soil, air and water quality. The process may be organic, but it may not be.
• Adding ingredients and fermenting: Sustainable winemaking places a focus on environmentally friendly and socially responsible processes balanced with cost and economic sense. Sometimes the ingredients are organic, but they don’t have to be.
• Storing and transporting: Facilities and transportation in this winemaking process place a focus on energy efficiency and social responsibility.

Not all vineyards that produce sustainable wines have the same practices. You could have two different sustainable wines sitting side-by-side and find out that their farming, winemaking, storing and transporting processes were completely different. One may be organic, and another may not be. The restrictions are much more subject to individual preferences. You won’t find one sustainable wine certification, but rather several different associations and certifications, each with its own set of rules.
• EMS Environmental Management System (ISO 14001 / ISO 14004): As one of the most common certifications, this international certification focuses on minimizing waste and improving overall waste management. The International Organization for Standardization is continually making updates to its sustainability guidelines, which is reflected in this certification. It is popular in several wine regions, including Bordeaux (in France), Chile and Australia.
• Certified California Sustainable Vineyard and Winery (CCSW): This certification was developed by the Wine Institute and the California Association of Winegrape Growers (CAWG). There are over one hundred criteria for the certification that fall into three main categories: environmental soundness, economic feasibility and social equality. For you to get certified, a third party must conduct an audit. They will check metrics in water and energy use, greenhouse gas emissions and nitrogen use. To give you a niche example, wines in Oregon, Washington, California and Idaho located near rivers with salmon populations can become “Salmon Safe.” Being “Salmon Safe” means that wines with this indication were created with the salmon in mind — special procedures were put in place to minimize runoff into the rivers and more.

While we’re able to give a general overview of the types of priorities in sustainable winemaking, the best way to get your hands on the specifics is to look up some of the sustainable practices that are most important to you and then find wine certifications and associations to match.

Biodynamic wines are like organic wines, but to earn this label, they abide by a few more regulations. They follow all the USDA’s regulations for organic products while adding biodynamic practices, which focus on soil treatments and timing planting actions that coincide with lunar cycles.

According to an article in Imbibe UK, these processes came from Rudolf Steiner, an Austrian philosopher, in the 1920s. He believed that instead of focusing solely on the grapevines, we should consider every organism in the area as well as astrological impacts on the vineyard.

To help biodynamic farmers put this big picture into practice, he developed a list of several soil preparations — some of which seem pretty bizarre. For example, Steiner gave the following soil treatment to prevent disease: Sheath oak bark in the skull of a farm animal and bury it in a watery environment over winter. Then, dig it up. Remove the skull’s contents and insert them into the compost. Discard the used skull.

If you’re new to biodynamics, it probably seems a little strange — but the results overwhelmingly show superior soil quality and vineyard health. Don’t forget, however, that because biodynamic wines are organic, their shelf life is shorter due to their lack of added sulfites.

Finally, you’ll want to know the growing, fermenting and storing process for biodynamic wines:
• Growing and harvesting: Grapes are grown following all of the organic farming and harvesting practices, without chemical fertilizers and pesticides. Instead, several soil preparations are used. The sun, moon and planets lead all parts of the farming and harvesting process.
• Adding ingredients and fermenting: Ingredients and fermenting are the same as organic wines — all agricultural ingredients used in the winemaking are organically grown. The non-agricultural ingredients must be included on the National List of Allowed and Prohibited Substances and cannot make up more than 5% of the wine. No sulfites can be used.
• Storing and transporting: The storing and transporting process for biodynamic wines is the same as that for organic wines — storage areas for ingredients and wine are certified by the USDA. To get the USDA certification, there cannot be any exposure to non-organic products.

It’s not always easy to find a biodynamic wine. Only two organizations certify them internationally — Demeter and Biodyvin. Aside from those, you can look for a wine with the USDA organic certification paired with the mention biodynamic practices — for various reasons, many biodynamic vintners are not officially certified.

What’s the Difference Between Regular, Organic, Sustainable and Biodynamic Wines?

You’ll find similarities and differences among organic, sustainable and biodynamic wines. All of them must follow laws, regulations and guidance stated by the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau. The majority of these rules are related to labeling and selling wine. The primary difference between each wine type is in the growth and harvest of the grapes, ingredients and winemaking process.

In simplest terms, organic winemakers are focused on a purer process — less exposure to chemicals. Sustainable winemakers place a priority on being environmentally friendly, socially responsible and economically sound. Biodynamic wine creators make organic wines using farming processes that align with the lunar calendar and involve specific soil treatments.

The certifications for each type of wine are very different. While there is a single certification for organic wines, the other kinds have several available recognitions. When you compare regular wines to each of these, you’ll want to be aware of several differences.

The main difference between organic wine and regular wine is the list of chemicals and ingredients each is exposed to. A USDA-certified organic wine is subject to tight rules and regulations, and as a result, mixes with fewer chemicals throughout the entire process — a more natural process, you might say, but one with a lack of sulfites. Sulfites are one of the keys to preserving and aging wine, so this purer process of producing organic wines means a shorter shelf life. The cost of organic wine is usually higher.

When you’re comparing ordinary wines to sustainable wines, the difference is in the vintner’s emphasis on the environment. Sustainable wine companies make an extra effort to minimize their impact on the environment. They spend time focusing on waste management, water conservation, energy efficiency and wildlife preservation. In addition to environmental impact, sustainable wines also focus on social responsibility — placing an extra emphasis on making sure their employees are treated and compensated fairly.

The differences between regular wines and biodynamic wines are in the farming of the grapes. Biodynamic winemakers follow some of the same processes used to make organic wines but take one step further. Biodynamic wines add another dimension to the differences that exist between regular and organic wines. They’re produced using grapes that have been grown through particular processes — matching every aspect of the grape growth with the lunar calendar, for instance — to achieve superior soil.

Which Wine Is Best for Me?

The wine you prefer depends on what you’re passionate about. If you are looking for the purest wine in its most natural state, free of chemicals and preservatives, an organic wine will be the perfect match for you. These wines are also great for those who prioritize buying foods and other products organic —you’re likely to want to pair these with an organic wine.

If you’re enthusiastic about the environment, sustainable wines will taste even better when you think about the reduced environmental impact. Whether your passion is for overall sustainability or a particular niche, like alternative energy, energy efficiency, water conservation, wildlife preservation, etc., you can rest assured knowing that vintners who share your passion created sustainable wines.

If you’re a fan of focusing on winemaking as a part of a much larger ecosystem, in tune with the sun, moon and planets, biodynamic wines will give you peace of mind of knowing every possible element was incorporated, with Mother Nature leading the way for planting and harvesting times. The vintners behind biodynamic wines make sure to consider every aspect of their vineyard ecosystem — to the moon and back — when they’re growing the grapes to create your wine. How cool is that?

If you’re just passionate about a good glass of wine, we recommend trying a variety to see what you like the best. You know the differences among the three types and a regular glass of wine, so get a bottle of each and give them a try. Does a glass of wine without the use of chemicals taste better? Or does the wine made with grapes grown with the lunar cycles have an edge? Can you notice a taste difference in the wine that was created with a focus on water conservation and energy efficiency? How does your favorite glass of regular wine compare to each of these?

There are so many questions to answer. Let’s be honest — who doesn’t want an excuse for a wine tasting?

How Can You Find the Perfect Organic, Sustainable or Biodynamic Wine for Your Next Event?

If you decide to take advantage of hosting an impromptu wine tasting to test each wine category, Marketview Liquor is here to help you get the best bottles for the occasion. Regardless of whether you’re searching for organic, sustainable, biodynamic or regular wine, you’re sure to find what you need in our diverse, affordable selection.

We have a selection of organic wines online that range in price from under $10 to $50+. You’ll discover a variety — everything from a sweet Riesling to a bottle of dry red. Our extensive selection includes wines from regions around the world — you’ll find options from certified organic vineyards located everywhere from California to Spain.

If organic wine isn’t your favorite, we have several non-organic options for you to choose from that come from equally diverse regions of the world. We’re sure we have something to satisfy your palate and your wallet. Each week you can see our specials in our weekly ad, and we always have a section called Great & Under $8. Visit our website to browse our extensive inventory — if you find something you like, you’ll see how easy it is to order our wines online.Pinot noir wine is named after the variety of grapes used to make it. Also known as “Red Burgundy” in many parts of the world, the pinot noir variety of grapes is the 10th most planted grape variety in the world. However, these grapes are not among the most common, as they have a reputation for being high maintenance.

It takes a particular climate to be able to grow these uniquely dark, dense grapes — the Burgundy region of France, the Sonoma Valley in the United States and the Baden region of Germany all have it. Even within these areas, the grapes remain tough to grow — they’re fragile and susceptible to disease in addition to being tough to ripen evenly. Since they’re difficult to grow, a bottle of pinot noir is a little harder to come by, which usually means when you do find it, you’re going to pay more.

Perhaps the fact that it’s usually more expensive and can be hard to find is part of the reason it’s the stereotypical choice of a wine snob. Despite its reputation for being a snobby wine, it’s also known as a crowd pleaser — perfect for serving to large groups of people.

While the region that a bottle of pinot noir comes from has a large effect on the taste, pinot noir from the United States has a reputation for being consistent, with dominant fruit flavors. Perhaps that, along with the rest of its wine profile, is what makes it such a popular choice to serve at parties.

Pinot noir grapes were first grown in the Burgundy region of France, hence why pinot noir is French for “pine” and “black,” a perfect name for these tightly knit, pinecone-shaped, dark grapes. When you envision these clusters of dark grapes, you may connect them to the quintessential grapes found in Roman art — and you’d be correct in doing so. These grapes date all the way back to the first century when the Romans enjoyed them due to their popularity in what would later become France.

After the Romans, it was the church, particularly the Catholic Monks, that became religiously devoted to pinot noir — literally. In 1000 A.D., after the Romans had abandoned their vineyards in Burgundy, the Cistercian order of Monks took over. These monks believed hard labor brought them closer to God, so they put their heart and soul into the vineyards, cultivating them and taking copious, detailed notes regarding how and where the grapes grew best — and how the wine tasted as a result.

These monks invented the first harvest reports, a foundation in winemaking. Wine enthusiasts today know this as “terroir,” which is the French word for “a sense of place.” In simpler terms, terroir means the wine exemplifies the flavors one would expect from that particular area — and it’s become a major selling point for wine. The monks’ location in Burgundy was off the beaten path and not on a major trade route, which is part of the reason this wine became such a delicacy. Their focus was on devotion to hard labor to please God, not on making money.

In addition to the monks’ way of life, Gamay, the other red grape of Burgundy, was outlawed in 1395 by Duke Phillipe, leaving no competition in the region for pinot noir. As the monks continued to focus exclusively on pinot noir vineyards, their wine began to make a name for itself. Legend has it Pope Urban V refused to return to Rome in the Middle Ages, saying, “You can’t get wine like this in Italy.”

Pinot noir quickly became the favorite wine to use for various sacraments. Soon, the public embraced the wine, too — after all, if it was good enough for the church, it must be good enough for the public. As new vineyards began appearing in California, Oregon, New Zealand and Australia, their winemakers began taking notes from the Europeans. As a result, there are more than 40 mutations of pinot noir on the market today, each with its unique flair of flavor — some good, others not-so-great.

What Does Pinot Noir Taste Like?

Pinot noir wine goes against some of the stereotypical characteristics of red wines. For example, contrary to the popular belief that red wines should be served at room temperature, it’s ideal to chill pinot noir wine to a temperature around 55 degrees Fahrenheit. This wine is a lighter red, meaning it’s pale in color and has subtle fruity flavors like cherry, cranberry and raspberry, combined with other flavors like vanilla, clove, licorice, mushroom, cola and caramel. The intensity and combination of the flavors you get depends upon the individual bottle of wine.

Pinot noir is considered a dry wine, which means it tends to be less sweet due to a lack of leftover sugar, or “residual sugar,” after fermentation. However, even dry wines can have differing levels of sweetness, so while pinot noir wines are classified as dry wines, there still can be some versions of the wine that will be more or less sweet than others.

Pinot noir is described as a medium-bodied wine. If you aren’t a wine enthusiast, the body of the wine is used to describe its weight and viscosity. This may seem odd, but consider the different types of milk — skim, 1%, 2% and whole milk. When you drink a glass of skim milk, it’s different than drinking a glass of whole milk. If we were describing milk as we describe bodies of wine, skim would be characterized as having a “light body” and whole milk would be “full body.” Pinot noir’s medium body makes it a versatile wine, pairing well with a variety of foods.

While these pinot noir characteristics are what separates this type of wine from the rest, they are generalizations. After all, not all pinot noir wines were created equal. The location of the vineyard plays a significant role in the taste. Here are a few notes regarding how the taste of pinot noir could differ from region to region:
• France: In the region where pinot noir first started, you’ll find a lighter version of the wine with earthy aromas that dominate and may remind you of mushrooms or wet leaves. It still has the floral and fruit aromas, but they’re a bit more subtle.
• California: Within the United States, California is known for making some of the best pinot noirs. This bold glass of wine will have a flavor that screams fruit — specifically cherry and raspberry — with a side of vanilla, clove, cola and caramel.
• Germany: The main region for pinot noir in Germany happens to be right near the border of France. The wine from this region is a mix of what you’ll find in France and the United States. Overall, these pinot noirs feature a solid mix of earthiness and raspberry and cherry aromas.

Pinot noir has a few relatives in the pinot wine family. These are mutations of pinot noir grapes, not crosses, so pinot noir remains the “parent grape.” While there is diversity among pinot noir wines alone, the pinot family gives additional diversity.
• Pinot Gris: Replacing the “noir” with “gris,” French for “grey,” this relative of pinot noir has grapes with a pinkish tint, which you may notice in your glass of pinot gris. Pinot gris wine is usually rich and honeyed.
• Pinot Grigio: “Grigio” means “grey” in Italian, so the grapes used to make pinot gris and pinot grigio are the same. The difference comes in the way the wine is made. This Italian version is full of crisp, fresh fruit aromas and has a much lighter body.
• Pinot Blanc: If pinot grigio isn’t light enough for you, pinot blanc may be the perfect fit. “Blanc” means “white” in French, and this wine is very light, fresh and crisp.

In addition to these mainstream members of the pinot wine family, there are a few others that are less common — among them are pinot meunier, pinot auxerrois, pinot teinturier and pinot gouges.

In addition to being used to create wine, pinot noir grapes are also the most widely used for making champagne, which may come as a surprise, given these are dark grapes. The ratios of grapes used to make champagne vary, but the overwhelming majority used two-thirds red grapes, like pinot noir, and one-third chardonnay grapes.

In addition to being the most common grape for champagne, the pinot noir grapes used must be bottled within 100 miles of the champagne region of France, according to European Law.

Making pinot noir is very similar to other winemaking processes, but there are some unique elements to the process. Part of what makes each bottle different is the grapes themselves, since their taste differs depending on where they were grown. The winemaking process itself also plays a role. In general, making pinot noir can be broken down into three steps:

Once the grapes have been harvested, they’re sorted to ensure no loose stems, insects, leaves or compromised grapes make it into the wine. This manual process is often the first step, sometimes followed by running the grapes through a destemmer to — you guessed it — remove the stems. Theoretically, after the destemmer, you have just the grapes left, which are put into a stainless-steel tank.

A destemmer or crusher is then used to split open the grapes and release the juice. The grapes and their juice are then left to soak for a period so the native yeast can begin the fermentation process. The process of fermentation is the yeast consuming the natural sugar within the grapes, ultimately converting it to alcohol. Pinot noir wines are often fermented at a lower temperature to retain the aromas. During this stage of the pinot noir winemaking process, there may be pressing and occasional stirring. You can also add yeast to encourage the fermentation process.

After the fermentation process is complete, the wine is separated from the solids — like skins and seeds — and put into barrels. For pinot noir wine, this almost always means French Oak barrels, which is part of what gives pinot noir its unique flavor profile. The amount of time it’s left to age varies and is ultimately up to the winemaker. The difference in aging time is another reason not all pinot noir wines taste the same. Once it’s finished aging in the French Oak barrels, it is bottled. Then, the winemaker may also decide to store the wine and give it time to age in the bottle. Once it’s bottled and aging is complete, it’s ready to be transported to stores to sell.

What Food Is Best for Pairing With Pinot Noir?

While pinot noir may have a stereotype for being a fancy, snobby wine, it pairs well with a variety of foods — both delicate and rich. This makes it a favorite to serve at parties and get-togethers with friends. Pairing wine with food is a tradition that developed into very strict rules — overall, reds go with red meats and whites are for fish. However, many have recently returned to a single basic rule — if you like a particular glass of wine with a particular glass of food, pair them together.

Yes, there are reasons that specific wines complement certain dishes, but ultimately, the winning pair is if they taste good together. The list of foods pinot noir pairs well with is extensive, but here are a few examples to try:

Who doesn’t love cheese and bread? A glass of pinot noir is a fantastic addition to your white pizza night. Add fresh herbs to your white pizza, and you’ll find it brings the taste of your favorite bottle of pinot noir to a whole new level.

White wine butter sauce is a common addition to chicken dishes, but making the same sauce with pinot noir instead gives you a delicious beurre rouge sauce. This sauce over your chicken ties in perfectly with a glass of your favorite pinot noir.

It doesn’t get much more “earthy” than mushrooms. If you have a fatty mushroom dish — like mushroom risotto — pairing it with a glass of pinot noir will bring out the fruitiness of the wine.

Pinot noir’s acidity is a perfect match for a gamey, fatty meat like duck. The acidity cuts through those flavors and, if you spice the duck, you may be surprised at the taste of your pinot noir. You’ll likely expose some of the subtle flavors you hadn’t noticed before.

Seeing the word fish paired with a red wine will make some of the traditional wine enthusiasts cringe, but hear us out. Yes, the aftertaste of fish and the aftertaste of the tannins in pinot noir can make a terrible combination, but if you choose a fresh river fish, like trout or salmon, a glass of pinot noir will make a nice addition to the hearty dish.

In addition to pairing well with a variety of dishes, pinot noir wine is also a favorite to use in cooking. You can use it to create a sauce to accompany red meat, but you’ll also find it works as a great addition to sauces with mushrooms and herbs.

If you’re more of a mixologist than a chef, there are several drinks you can make with a bottle of pinot noir. Many enjoy trying different brands of pinot noir due to the differences in flavor. There are many ways to incorporate this wine into a few fun cocktails during any season. Here are a few of our favorites:

If your glass of pinot noir is a little too dry and you’d like to sweeten it up, consider making it into a Cardinal Cocktail with the help of a sweet, low-proof liqueur. It’s easy!

Fill a wine glass with ice. Add one ounce of Crème de Cassis. Pour the five ounces of pinot noir over the ice and Crème de Cassis. If you’re feeling festive, add a few raspberries or blackberries to the rim, as well.

If you’re searching for a light, wine spritzer recipe to cool you off on a sizzling summer day, the Paysan is the perfect solution. By adding fruit juices and Sprite, you’ll have a refreshing play on your favorite glass of pinot noir.

Here’s what you’ll need to make a batch for you and five of your friends:

Combine the wine, juices and Chambord and refrigerate for approximately two hours. Stir well and pour over ice into glasses. Top each glass off with half an ounce of Sprite and garnish with lemon, lime and orange zest for extra flavor.

When there’s a chill in the air and you’d like to trade in your hot cocoa for a warm cocktail, a piping hot pinot is the perfect mix of fall and winter flavors. Barefoot Wine gets credit for creating this recipe.

To make it, just gather these few ingredients:
• 6 dashes each of ground clove, cinnamon and nutmeg

In a large, microwave-safe container, mix the fresh or thawed cherries, spices, brown sugar and fruit juices. Heat in the microwave on high for one minute. Then, lightly mash the cherries and add the pinot noir. Place it back into the microwave for one to two minutes — make sure it doesn’t bubble. Remove from the microwave and enjoy!

If you’re looking for the perfect pinot noir to serve at your next get-together, Marketview Liquor has a variety of options available. Our wines are easy to order online and can be shipped anywhere in the United States.

At Marketview Liquor, we know pinot noir grapes grow best in specific regions, like France and California, and our inventory of pinot noir wines reflects that. You’ll find we have wines from regions recognized for their pinot noir grapes at affordable prices, ranging from $6 to $50+ per bottle.

If you’re interested in buying several different brands and types of wine, we have a mix and match case discount that can save you up to 10% when you order from us online. Get started by browsing our selection of pinot noir wines.The popularity of wine in our society can’t be denied. From wine tastings and painting parties to slogans on t-shirts and signs, wine drinking has become not only a popular pastime, but also a lifestyle. In 2016 alone, 399 million cases of wine were shipped to the U.S. from both domestic and foreign producers, with sales totaling over 60 billion dollars.

It may seem like everyone is jumping on the wine bandwagon. However, there are still many people out there who are just learning to like wine or dislike it for one reason or another.

There are many reasons why people don’t like wine. Some don’t care for the sharp alcohol taste they may have experienced with previous wine-drinking experiences. Others may not have acquired a taste for wine or have tasted a style of wine they didn’t like. Many people don’t like the way that wine feels in their mouth or may have experienced an unpleasant aftertaste.

The fact that there are hundreds of varieties of wines can also be incredibly intimidating to some people. They may not be sure which wines they might like and what characteristics each type embodies. Many people are confused about wine and food pairings, too, so spending money on a glass of wine they’re unsure about when dining out also leads some people to skip the wine-drinking experience altogether.

Perhaps you feel like the only one in your social circle who doesn’t drink wine. Maybe you want to find a wine you like but aren’t sure where to start. Don’t worry — whether you’re searching for an appropriate variety or are just desperately trying to fit in with your wine-loving peers, even if you hate the taste of wine, there’s a wine out there for you.

If you don’t enjoy the taste of wine, chances are it’s because you’ve been drinking the wrong kind. Fortunately, learning to like wine is actually quite simple. Although there is a vast variety of wines from which to choose, from sweet and fruity to bold and rich, learning some of the basic terminology and styles of wine can help you narrow down the flavors you enjoy. There are also many helpful tips to help you identify and enhance the flavors of your wine and make your wine-drinking experience more enjoyable. With the right wine style, you may not even realize you’re drinking wine.

When discussing wine, the term “body” is often mentioned. This refers to the wine’s weight, fullness or overall feel in your mouth. Since there is no definitive cutoff between the categories, wines can fall into more than one. A wine’s body has nothing to do with its quality, which is determined by other factors such as how all of the components work together.

Alcohol content is the primary factor that determines a wine’s body, with higher alcohol levels making a more viscous and full-bodied wine. Components such as tannins, sugars and acids are referred to as “extracts” and also contribute to a wine’s body. Certain winemaking techniques, such as how the wine is aged, processed or fermented also contribute to a wine’s body. The grape variety is another contributing factor to a wine’s overall body since grapes with higher sugar content produce more alcohol and a fuller-bodied wine.
• Light-bodied wines: Wines with an alcohol level of up to about 12.5% are considered light-bodied. These wines are generally described as delicate and easy-drinking. Both red and white wines can fall into the light-bodied wine category, although red wines tend to be more full-bodied naturally. Light bodied wines are often sweeter without the alcohol taste that is often associated with wine. Light-bodied wines are perfect for beginning wine drinkers.
• Medium-bodied wines: Wines with an alcohol level of about 12.5% to 13.5% are considered medium-bodied. Their flavor falls between the light and sweet tones of light-bodied wines and the powerful tones of full-bodied wines. They are considered to be light on the palate and are not as heavy and acidic as full-bodied wines. Medium-bodied wines are perfect for wine drinkers who want to appreciate their wine without the extreme flavors of light or full-bodied wines.
• Full-bodied wines: Wines with an alcohol level over 13.5% are considered full-bodied. They are often described as robust and powerful. Red wines are typically more full-bodied than white wines, although both may fall into this category. Wines that are aged or fermented in oak barrels are more full-bodied, as are those that are made from grapes with thicker skins or grown in warmer climates. Full-bodied wines are appropriate for wine drinkers who enjoy strong tastes and a wine flavor that will linger in their mouth.

The Nine Basic Styles of Wine

While learning about the types of grapes that are used for each style of wine is also very helpful in determining the types of wine you may like, identifying specific grape varieties may prove to be a challenging and time-consuming task. There are over 1,300 varieties of commercial wine grapes, with only about 150 varieties used in wine produced around the world.

Although there are numerous varieties of wine available in the world today, they can be broken down into nine basic styles that describe their flavor, body and characteristics. These styles encompass the broad range of wine flavors that exist. Starting off at one of these basic wine styles can help you to eventually branch out into other similar flavors and varieties:

Sparkling wines are described as light and bubbly. While many sparkling wines are sweet, the brut varieties are not.

Within the style of sparkling wine are four different flavor categories that include:

Flavors you may experience with sparkling wines include fruit, flowers, nuts and even bread and yeast. The flavors of each wine are dependent upon the types of grapes used and the fermentation and aging processes. Sparkling wines pair well with salty foods, salads, seafood such as fish and oysters, and chili. Sparkling wines are best served ice-cold.

These wines are described as light and zesty. They are popular because they’re refreshing, easy to drink and pair well with most foods.

Crisp, acidic, fruity flavors are usually experienced in light-bodied white wines, which pair well with seafood, fried foods, salads and chicken or other poultry. Light-bodied white wines are best served cold.

The flavors of these wines are described as smooth and creamy, due to special techniques such as barrel aging. Red wine fans enjoy this style of white wine since there are many flavor similarities.

Flavors that may be encountered in full-bodied white wines include coconut and vanilla. This style of wine pairs well with shellfish such as crab and lobster, rich cream sauces, poultry and soft cheeses. Full-bodied white wines are best served cool.

These wines are described as sweet and aromatic with both sweet and dry varieties available. The grapes used for this style of wine have a perfume-like flavor that gives the wine its inherent sweetness.

Flavors that may be encountered in sweet white wines include fruity and floral notes. They pair well with Indian and Thai cuisine, cream sauces, dishes containing citrus, dessert foods and strong cheeses. Sweet white wines are best served cold.

This style of wine gets its rosy color from the skins of red wine grapes. It is described as fruity and crisp and is available in both dry and sweet varieties. The delicate flavors of rosé are more fully experienced in the dry variety. Rosé is a diverse wine that bridges the span between red and white wine.

Flavors you may experience in rosé wines include red and citrus fruits, flowers, melon and rhubarb. They pair well with Mexican, Greek, Turkish and Lebanese cuisine, fried chicken, roast pork and foods containing exotic spices. Rosés are best served at cool room temperature.

This style of red wine is described as pale in color and light-tasting. These wines are very popular and desired around the world since they combine the complex flavors of red wine without the high, sharp-tasting tannin content.

Flavors you may encounter in light-bodied red wines include those of red fruits. They pair well with creamy foods, chicken and other poultry. Light-bodied red wines are best served at cool room temperature.

This wine style is very popular since it pairs well with many types of foods. It can be described as zesty and flavorful. This style of red wine is an easy-drinking wine for enjoying with dinner.

Flavors that may be experienced with medium-bodied red wines vary greatly like the regions in which their grapes are grown and can include those of both dark and soft fruit. These wines pair well with a wide variety of foods including Italian cuisine, hamburgers, hearty soups, roasted meats and foods with strong spices. Medium-bodied red wines are best served at room temperature.

This style of red wine contains the most tannins and is a deep and dark color. Their flavor is described as sharp and bold. These wines pair well with high-fat foods such as steak, but they are also delightful by themselves. Full-bodied red wines are known for cleansing the palate, which makes them a great cocktail wine.

Flavors you may experience in full-bodied red wines include rich, dark fruit flavors. They pair well with barbecued, smoked and red meats, along with Mexican food and dishes containing black pepper. Full-bodied red wines are best served at room temperature.

This style of wine, made from sweet grapes, is usually intense and flavorful. These wines are frequently enjoyed as after dinner drinks, as their sweetness and viscosity liken them to a dessert treat. Dessert wines are available in both dry and sweet varieties.

Dessert wines are available in several different types including sparkling, slightly or richly sweet and also fortified. Many different flavors may be encountered in dessert wines including those of figs, raisins, florals, fruits, nuts, yeast, ginger, honey and even brown sugar. The different types of dessert wines pair nicely with certain foods such as strong cheeses and dessert foods, and they are also frequently enjoyed by themselves. The serving temperature of dessert wines varies according to the variety.

Once you know the basic terminology and styles of wine, you’ll have a better idea of what kind of wine to ask for the next time you’re out for dinner or cocktails. However, you may still be a little confused. What happens if you are given a bottle of unfavorable wine as a gift and need to toast a glass as the gracious host, or if you’re at a wedding and they only offer a style of wine you don’t like? Fortunately, there are many ways to help make your wine drinking experience a pleasant one, even if the wine you are offered is not your favorite:
• Stay away from extreme flavors. If you’re just learning to enjoy wine, focus on lighter and sweeter wines like sparkling wines, light-bodied whites or rosé. Stay away from extra dry or acidic wines, like full-bodied and aged reds and as they can be bitter and sharp. While focusing on sweeter wines is a good tip for beginning wine drinkers, it’s important to stay away from overly sweet wines, such as dessert varieties, which can be unpleasant if consumed in large quantities.
• Identify flavors you like. Since wine embodies many different flavor notes, from fruits and nuts to flowers and chocolate, knowing the types of flavors you enjoy in both food and beverages can help you to choose a proper wine variety. Some other flavors that can be found in different wine varieties also include: Coffee, Hops, Yeast, Honey, Spices, and Herbs.
• Choose wines that pair well with foods you enjoy. While different varieties of wine are best paired with specific foods, it’s impossible to remember all of the pairing rules. A good basic rule of thumb is that white wines pair well with chicken, pork and fish, while red wines pair best with beef and lamb.
• Add fruit. The addition of fruit to wine not only sweetens the taste, but also infuses it with a flavor boost. Try to choose fruits that are already present in your wine. Strawberries, raspberries, oranges, lemons and limes are fruits that are commonly added to wine. Additionally, sangria is a wine-based beverage that is made with a variety of fruits such as apples, peaches and citrus. It’s also available in both white or red wine varieties.
• Chill your wine. Chilling your glass of wine may help to enhance its flavor and make it more palatable. Certain wines, such as white and sparkling varieties, are best served ice cold, while others, such as reds are best served at room temperature. Adding an ice cube or even frozen bits of fruit chills your wine and also dilutes it.
• Dilute your wine. Don’t be afraid to dilute a strong-tasting wine with an ice cube or even some club soda. The addition of carbonation can greatly cut the sharpness and aftertaste of a strong wine. Consider ordering a wine spritzer, as it will be already mixed with correct ratio of wine to club soda.
• Drink it while eating cheese. Cheese makes everything better, and wine is no exception. The saltiness and pungent flavor of cheese can cut the sharp flavor of wine, and each helps to bring out the flavor of the other. While certain varieties of wine go best with certain cheeses, there really is no bad combination when it comes to wine and cheese.

Suggested Wines for People Who Hate the Alcohol Taste

Here is a quick cheat sheet to use as a reference when considering wine choices. The following varieties of wine tend to be sweeter and lack the burn, bitterness and alcoholic taste that turn many people off to wine. Remember that dry wines tend to be more earthy and less fruity, while dessert wines are meant to be sipped slowly:

The type of wine you ultimately choose depends on many factors, including your flavor preferences, mood and food choice. When picking wine as a beginner, it’s best to purchase through a specialty wine store with great selection, service and savings. At Marketview Liquor, our knowledgeable and helpful staff can guide you in choosing the wine varieties that are right for you. Browse our extensive selection of wines and have your perfect wine shipped directly to your door.Not all food and wine festivals are created equal. The inspiration for wine festivals stemmed from celebrating the harvest of grapes – and we can trace the origin of these celebrations back to the Greek god of the grape harvest, Dionysus. But over time, they have evolved in various ways in different places all across the country. While some continue to celebrate in the fall, around the traditional time of harvest, others have started hosting in different seasons. While some focus on unique, regional wines, others have expanded to include an international portfolio of varieties. Many benefit tourism, while others have developed a partnership with a charity they donate all or most of the proceeds to. Some have music; others provide impressive menus. All of them offer a good time in their own way.

To give you a taste of some of our favorites, we’ve gathered a list of some of the best food and wine festivals in locations all across the country and at all times of the year. After all, celebrating a good glass of wine is always in season.

Given the harvest theme, fall is naturally a favorite time of year for wine festivals – from grape harvests to grape stomping and, of course, wine tasting – it’s the busiest time of year for wineries. As the air gets cooler and crisper, and the fall foliage begins to show, it’s a perfect time to make a trip to a couple of our favorite wine festivals. Our picks for this part of the year span all the way from the West Coast to the East Coast.

If you’re looking for wine connoisseurs, certainly they’re among the staff at Wine & Spirits Magazine. So it’s no surprise that their exclusive Wine and Spirit’s Top 100 event makes our list of best wine festivals. Throughout the year, critics on staff blind-taste over 15,000 bottles of wine and then select 100 of the best wineries to be featured at this annual event in San Francisco. Wineries are required to present their highest-rate wine at the event, so as a guest, you’re sure to be served the best of the best – sometimes poured by the winemakers themselves. As if that wasn’t impressive enough, it doesn’t stop with good wine. Acclaimed chefs from San Francisco are also onsite serving their signature specialties, often including fresh oysters, local cheeses and other artisan specialties – making this an event both wine lovers and foodies won’t want to miss.

As a bonus, this wine festival teams up with groups that work to protect water resources to raise money and awareness, so you can feel extra good about spending money on a ticket. This year, proceeds from this event benefit San Francisco Baykeeper, an organization that advocates to stop pollution in the San Francisco Bay. As Wine & Spirits points out, wine is 80% water, so water purity and conversation is an issue that should be near and dear to a wine drinker’s heart.

Epcot may make you think of a place you go primarily for the kids, but their food and wine festival proves they have something for the whole family. This Disney Park is known for taking families around the world to 11 country pavilions in a day – its food and wine festival takes it up a notch and adds food and drinks from an additional twelve countries and regions. Celebrate with a grand tasting event, specialty pairing or a wine seminar. The best part? The fact that this event is family-friendly. There are a wide variety of kid-friendly food options, so your children have the opportunity to indulge, too – in a different way, of course.

In addition to sampling cuisine and drinks from around the world, this is one of the longest wine and food festivals – lasting an entire 75 days from the end of August into November, so you have plenty of time to buy your tickets and plan your trip. Big name TV chefs and culinary icons make the trip to Disney to teach you their cooking and baking tips live – some of the big names include Alex Guarnaschelli, Cat Cora, Buddy Valastro, Shaun O’Neale and Carla Hall. You’ll also enjoy jamming to live music as big names are also a part of the festival’s Eat to the Beat concert series – among the acts this year are Boyz II Men and Sugar Ray.

Known as NYCWFF, the New York City Wine and Food Festival is the largest in New York City with more than 50,000 attendees – not surprising when you consider that Food Network, Cooking Channel and Coca-Cola are behind this event. This event has a lot of bragging rights, but the best part is that 100% of the net proceeds from this event benefit Food Bank for New York City and the No Kid Hungry® campaign.

While you’re supporting this worthy cause, you’ll have the opportunity to taste the creations from over 100 wineries and spirit producers in settings that range from intimate dinners to a signature Grand Tasting. You can even bring the kids to this food and wine festival, as it also features family-friendly activities. At this event, you’ll get to rub elbows with over 500 famous chefs, wine and spirit producers, pop culture icons and, of course, your favorite Food Network and Cooking Channel celebrities. Not only that, but you’ll be able to party at some of New York City’s best venues, including Food Network and Cooking Channel’s Culinary Campus at Piers 92 and 94.

Travel and Leisure names San Diego one of “America’s Best Cities for Foodies.” Pair that with California vineyards, and you have an epicurean experience like no other. Over 150 wineries, breweries and spirit purveyors and 60 of the city’s best restaurants come together to throw a West Coast celebration that’s tough to beat. Over 10,000 wine lovers and foodies make the trip from all across the country to be a part of this food and wine festival. With eight days of events, there is something for everyone. From chef’s battling to make the best fish taco to seminars on the coastal qualities of SLO Wine Country, you won’t be disappointed.

Traveling on a budget? You’ll be happy to know they have a category of events that are budget friendly at $85 and under. If you’re just going for the wine, you can purchase the wine lovers package to make sure you hit all of the wine highlights. Haven’t been to San Diego before? You might want to check out the “experience San Diego” package so you can enjoy your glass of wine with some sightseeing. Neither of those sound like something you’re interested in? Don’t worry; there are other packages available that just might fit what you’re looking for.

Winter is a great time to trade in your crisp, fruity wines for a textured wine. But thanks to our winter wine festivals, you won’t have to put away your warm weather favorites or bundle up for these wine and food festivals – instead, pack your bags and head south.

The Naples Winter Wine Festival makes our list of best wine festivals because it’s a combination of great wine and a great cause. Held during a weekend in January, this event began in 2001 and has raised over $161 million for at-risk and underprivileged children through the Naples Children and Education Foundation (NCEF). While wine and food are front and center for attendees, it’s truly all for the kids. In fact, the entire weekend kicks off with a day dedicated to meeting the children and organizations the festival’s proceeds have helped – including a lunch break with acclaimed vintners.

Then you’ll dive right into a weekend full of events, including exclusive dinners with award-winning chefs and celebrated vintners in different locations throughout Naples, a live auction with a selection of some of the world’s finest and rarest wines, and a “wine down” with live music by Grammy-winning musicians. Attendees fly in from all over the world for this event, so if you want to make the guest list, you’ll have to plan ahead. Wine and charity sure are a winning pair!

This South Carolina festival started 13 years ago and attracts almost 20,000 food and wine enthusiasts from across the country. In these four days, you’ll get to taste the best wines, barbecue and tacos – all using the traditional Lowcountry ingredients. With over 100 events on the schedule, they have a variety of food and wine experiences to offer. Wine lunches and traditional tastings are a part of the lineup, but they also have a few unique sessions, like one called “Unicorn Wines” that claims to offer once in a lifetime tasting experiences. In addition to all of the wine-focused events, there are several events for foodies. Acclaimed chefs, artists and experts teach hands-on classes with all different themes and cuisine focuses so that you can develop your very own culinary skills. Signature dinners and brunches combine food and wine, and the culinary village at the heart of the festival gives you the opportunity to pair your wine with a little retail therapy. The only difficult part is choosing which events to attend.

If you live somewhere with cold winters, escape to the islands at the southernmost tip of Florida for a five-day wine and food festival you’ll never forget. This particular festival is all about celebrating the islands. Over 3000 people make their way to the Keys each year to enjoy wine and food with breathtaking views. These Floridians are passionate about hosting the event – iconic island locations team up to offer waterfront tastings, winemaker and chef collaborations and other “funky events” that give guests an authentic taste of Key West. A few of these fun activities include cooking dishes with Francesca, exploring tropical gardens, watching a beautiful sunset, eating Bahama Brunch, being a part of an “Old Town Shrimp Boil,” and going on an Italian cooking adventure. What a great way to escape winter and celebrate wine and food!

Wine and spring fever are a perfect pair! As the days begin to get longer and the weather starts to get warmer, spring is a great time to celebrate food and wine.

We’re sure you’ve heard of Napa Valley and Sonoma Valley, but situated farther south, in between San Francisco and Los Angeles, you’ll find Paso Robles, the largest and most diverse wine region in all of California. Home to more than 200 wineries and 40,000 vineyard acres that grow more than 40 wine grape varietals, this is an area that is completely focused on premium wine production. From Blaufrankisch to Zinfandel, the wines are sophisticated, so you’re sure to find some of your favorite classics, but also some new non-traditional blends you might just fall in love with. Held downtown in a city park, more than 70 wineries gather for the “Grand Tasting.” From there, you can make your way beyond the park to wine seminars, BBQs, winemaker dinners, live music and more.

Every May for five days, this little island throws a big food and wine party. Nantucketeers have been hosting the event for 22 years, and have over 60 events – and that’s not including the individual restaurants on Nantucket that join in the fun and host their own events simultaneously. Rather than buying one ticket to the festival, tickets are sold individually for each event – and last year, they all sold out, so keep your eye on their website to make sure you don’t miss out on reserving your spot to your favorite event.

Among a few of the features that make this stand out from other wine and food festivals:
• The Junior Top Chef Competition for a grand prize of a $5,000 culinary scholarship
• The Great Wines and Grand Houses events that feature dinner and drinks in elegant, historic Nantucket homes with distinguished winemakers and chefs
• Individual tasting events for wines from through the United States and around the world

You’ll also find a hub of activity in the culinary tent. Taste food, watch cooking demonstrations and shop – you’re sure to see some of your favorite local, regional and national chefs, as well as some famous wine critics and authors.

One of the premier events in the Big Easy, the New Orleans Wine and Food Experience has become an attraction for wine lovers, foodies and artists across the country. Over the course of the weekend, you’ll have the opportunity to choose from over 1,000 wines from around the world. Seminar series will help you refine your palate, and the gala provides a memorable grand finale. But the real highlight of the festival is the Royal Street Stroll – an authentic New Orleans experience.

Think of this as your opportunity to be in a New Orleans Mardi Gras parade celebrating wine. Wine-themed costumes are encouraged as participants are led by the Krewe of Cork, a world-famous wine industry phenomenon, and winemakers as Grand Marshals. You’ll be able to walk in the parade, shop the galleries of Royal Street, drink your favorite wines and taste the local cuisine – all while listening to live jazz music. It truly is the quintessential New Orleans experience captured in a wine and food festival.

This particular celebration has been happening for over 25 years – and in that time, it has raised more than $1.2 million for local nonprofit organizations. Each year they announce the partnering organizations, so you have the opportunity to know which organization you helped with the purchase of your ticket. Where else can you parade around the French Quarter, drinking wine, indulging in the local cuisine and supporting a good cause?

The best food and wine festivals happen in the summer sun when you can explore exciting outdoor venues, sip on a chilled glass of wine and take advantage of the extra daylight hours. Whether you want to celebrate in Colorado or in the Finger Lakes region of New York, you can’t go wrong with a summer celebration of wine.

Celebrity chefs, renowned wine experts and epicurean insiders gather in Aspen, Colorado each year for the Food & Wine Classic. Recognized as “America’s Hottest Festival,” this event is in a class all its own. It features over 80 cooking demonstrations and wine seminars in addition to over 300 wines and luxury lifestyle brands. The 5,000 attendees from around the world are at the epicenter of the food and wine world as they sample food and wine and get introduced to some of the industry’s newest products. What more would you expect from a company that is known as the ultimate authority on the best of what’s new in food and drink?

Simultaneously, the Restaurant Trade Program by American Express provides a unique opportunity for hospitality professionals to learn from and network with industry leaders like Anne Burrell and Andrew Zimmern. Panel discussions with the hottest culinary talent about cutting-edge trends give these professionals invaluable insights to enhancing business – it’s one of the best wine and food festivals, with a professional development addition!

The Finger Lakes region of New York is known for wine trails, but why worry about transportation for the trail when you can attend the wine festival they have each summer? Held at Watkins Glen International, an auto race track located at the southern tip of Seneca Lake, this event gives you the perks of traveling a Finger Lakes Wine Trail all in one place. What makes the wines from this region so special? The environment is unique due to the climate created by the lakes and the Limestone-laced soil. These wines have a distinct taste that you can’t find anywhere else – and this event is the largest showcase of wines from New York State. You’ll have the opportunity to try wine from over 80 wineries, plus participate in cooking classes, attend cooking demonstrations and enjoy live music and the work of regional artisans.

Not only do they bring over 80 New York wineries to one central location, but they also have a wine claim check system in place so you can purchase your favorite wine without having to worry about carrying it around or the hassle of making multiple trips to your car. Tickets to this three-day event can be bought on a day-by-day basis, or together. They also have a special discount for attendees that come as designated drivers!

If you can’t make the trip to one of our favorite wine festivals, we can help you stock up on some of your favorites. We have an extensive selection of wines available for you to order online. Our diverse collection includes several different types from regions all over the world at a variety of price points – from under $10 to $50+. Each week we feature discounts in our weekly ad, and we have a section especially for our budget-friendly wine picks, called Great & Under $8. Regardless of what you’re looking for, visit our website to browse our inventory – if you find something you like, it’s easy to order online.Showing your appreciation to clients and business partners doesn’t have to be complicated. With wine, you can deliver an elegant and thoughtful gift that’s sure to be a hit. You can personalize bottles to the individual or company based on their preferences to ensure you show how much you care about your professional relationship.

At Marketview Liquor, we have plenty of options for corporate wine gifts that will delight your clients, while making the order and shipping process quick and easy for you! You can browse some of the best wine corporate gifts and determine which ones would be best for each of your professional relationships. Keep reading to discover business wine gifts for your clients, employees and business partners.

The people in your life want to feel appreciated, and customers and employees are no exception. You can show your appreciation by gifting them thoughtful and meaningful gifts.

Companies across the United States are opting for corporate wine gifts instead of more traditional items, like fruit baskets. These gifts can seem more personal and add a sophisticated touch to your gesture. Along with being a unique gift to share with your professional team, there are a few other reasons behind the growth in corporate wine gifting:
• A broad selection of available wines makes for a thoughtful and unique gift you can personalize.
• Having a choice of bottles or cases of wine makes it easy for clients to share the gift with their team.
• Wine is available online for easy purchasing and fast shipping across the U.S. Most orders ship within one to three business days, so you and your recipient never have to wait long for your gift to arrive.
• Millions of people love wine, making it a safe, crowd-pleasing pick for gifts.
• Rather than relying on availability, you can customize each gift to your client’s, employee’s or partner’s preferences.
• Wine bottles as business gifts are tax-deductible, making them an excellent choice for your team and your wallet.
• Glasses of wine are sophisticated and bring people together. While you’re thanking a corporate team member, you can do so in a classy and memorable way.

If you’re unsure whether a client drinks wine, you can always ask. Or, you can inquire about their preferences. Do they prefer a red wine, for example, or are they more of a fan of white wines? If you’re choosing corporate wine gifting to celebrate a team accomplishment, you can mix and match your wine selection along with a 10% discount on select wines.

How to Choose Employee and Client Wine Gifts

The wine you choose will reflect your appreciation for the client or employee you’re giving it to. When you’re not sure what kind of wine your recipient likes, there are still ways to get a high-end bottle they’ll appreciate. Choosing the best bottle can be simple if you follow these tips.

You should first establish your price range. Cheap wines are likely not going to impress your professional relationships, so shoot to find a bottle in the middle to high price range. It may be more affordable to buy some varieties than others. For example, a good Pinot Noir can be in the $20 range, while others may be more costly. Establish a baseline for beginning your search.

You can also evaluate the season you’re currently in when choosing a wine. Summer and spring wines can be fruitier, and crisp whites can be an excellent choice for that time of year. During the fall and winter, you may want to lean toward full-bodied reds that pair well with large holiday dinners — wine gifts for Christmas and Hanukkah are a real hit!

If you feel you need more confidence in your abilities to choose a wine, speaking with a store associate can be a great option. Although you can always ask your recipient what they like, sometimes it’s nice to give them a surprise. Additionally, don’t be afraid to choose something unusual — look for the intricacies that will stand out on the dinner table.

After you choose the bottle, consider crafting a small gift basket to truly impress your recipient. Food pairings like cheese, meat, chocolate, pretzels and crackers can help form an elegant basket. This way, even if you didn’t choose the recipient’s favorite bottle, you still hit the nail on the head with a delicious gift array.

When it gets down to the nitty-gritty, it can help to have an understanding of some of the more popular wines. Here are some red and white wine suggestions that can stand out as a corporate gift.

Gift one of these reds:
• Cabernet Sauvignon: This is a classic red wine choice. It has a robust and flavorful profile that makes it pair perfectly with aged cheese, pork roast and steak. Cabernet Sauvignon has a sense of sophistication your recipient can enjoy.
• Pinot Noir: Each glass of Pinot Noir can shine with many types of food, but it’s enjoyable on its own, too. You can find Pinot from many regions, so explore some of the most popular and choose an elegant bottle.
• Merlot: Another classic essential for the kitchen is high-tannin Merlot. In these bottles, you can find chocolate overtones, earthy tones, and fruity flavors.
• Chardonnay: Dry and unique, a refreshing glass of Chardonnay remains at the top of many people’s favorite wine lists because it pairs with both heavy meals and lighter fare. This wine is a staple in many vineyards, and your recipient can make it a staple in their kitchen.
• Sauvignon Blanc: Tasting like minerals and herbs, cool glasses of Sauvignon Blanc are delightful. With some bottles featuring fruity elements, Sauvignon Blanc is ideal for pairings like chicken, veggies and seafood.
• Pinot Grigio: Dry and refreshing, this Italian wine is excellent for casual get-togethers and relaxing atmospheres. Encourage your recipient to unwind by offering a bottle of Pinot Grigio.

You can also never go wrong with sparkling wine or champagne. Although many people enjoy glasses of these wines on their own, they can also make excellent ingredients for other drinks, like cocktails and sangrias. If you’re planning to gift some wine during the holiday season or you know a special occasion is right around the corner, a bottle of bubbly is an excellent corporate wine gift.

With wine, the options are limitless thanks to the creative minds at vineyards across the world. You can tailor each wine gift to your team’s preferences, from full bottles to creative champagne gift ideas. If you need help choosing wine gifts for clients, consider these options:
• Gift certificate: If time is of the essence, consider giving a corporate wine gift certificate. These can be customized for a range of amounts and can be delivered instantly via email. A certificate lets you show your appreciation, while also giving your client or team the freedom to choose any wine they want.
• Wine tasting: Organizing a wine tasting is an exceptional way to say thank you and form a strong business relationship. Select a few bottles of different varieties and set out a charcuterie board. As you sip wines, you can discuss business opportunities and get to know your client better. Leave a bottle unopened so you can gift one to your client as they’re leaving.
• Champagne: Demonstrate just how much you appreciate someone, or help them celebrate a special event or achievement, by choosing from our selection of corporate champagne gifts.
• Gift set: You can get your clients a wine gift set, which comes with a complimentary gift bag! Choose to grab two red bottles, a pair of whites, matching rosés or a combination of two varieties. This way, you ensure you get a bottle they enjoy and keep them thinking of you long after the first bottle is gone.
• Wine gift basket: If you like the idea of gift baskets but want to stick to the wine theme, you can still do both! You can create a personalized gift basket with wine, glasses, an ice bucket or food pairings. Keep the basket as simple or elaborate as you’d like and personalize each one you make for a unique gift every time.
• Mike’s Picks: Don’t consider yourself a wine connoisseur? Rely on Mike, our owner, and his more than 45 years of wine expertise. Mike’s Picks is a selection of high-quality wines your clients will love that are easy on your wallet.

If you’re buying a case of wine for a client, you can receive a 10% discount on select bottles. You can also enjoy free shipping when you purchase 12 or more bottles of select wines — feel free to mix and match the bottles as you please.

Give the Gift of Wine With Marketview Liquor

Choosing wine gifts for clients is a stress-free process when paired with the expertise of Marketview Liquor. Not only do we offer an exceptional selection, but we also provide the option to include a free personalized gift message at checkout to go with your corporate wine gift!

From gift sets to Mike’s Picks to gift certificates, you can find excellent gifts for your clients, partners and employees. We make it easy to celebrate your team with 10% case discounts on select items and free shipping on 12+ botttles of eligible wine. Browse our selection of corporate wine gifts today, or contact our team for more information if you need assistance with large orders or finding the perfect wine gift.

Image will link here – https://www.marketviewliquor.com/category/wine-wine once it’s implemented on the siteIf you’ve spent time on social media lately or have gone out with friends, wine has probably been a popular topic.

With a rise in wineries in the United States — around 5% annually according to WineBusiness.com —sharing and talking about wine online, visiting wineries, enjoying wine-centered events and building memories that include wine have all become wildly popular pastimes.

Perhaps you enjoy a glass here and there but you’re not quite sure how to decipher your actual taste in wine. Or maybe you’re unsure about how to make a purchase. What does “vintage” mean, anyway? What’s a table wine? How does a wine’s “aroma” affect your taste for it?

We believe wine is something worth celebrating. You can enjoy it regularly or on special occasions — whatever suits your mood. But we also believe that to truly enjoy wine, and to gain some confidence in the meantime, a little education can go a long way.

Consider this your beginner’s guide to wine. As you continue, you’ll learn more about wine and its history, how to taste wine, terms that might help you better understand what differentiates one bottle from another and everything else you need to start to learn about wine and what makes it so enjoyable.

Basic Wine Information for Beginners: What Is Wine in the First Place? Is It Healthy?

At a basic level, wine is an alcoholic beverage that’s made from fermented grape juice and/or other fruit juices. This is similar to how other alcoholic beverages are created. Beer is made from the fermenting of grains, vodka can be made from the fermenting of grains or potatoes, and so on. Wine is made from a similar process, but it involves fruit instead. If the fruit involved is not a grape, the bottle should be labeled accordingly.

Chemically speaking, wine is comprised of approximately 87.7% water, 11% alcohol, 1% acid and .2% tannins. This ratio can vary from one variety to another, but it provides a basic look at what’s inside a given bottle. Each bottle holds about five five-ounce glasses of wine.

As far as health is concerned, you’ve likely heard it all, with some sources claiming wine is as healthy as going to the gym. While this may be a stretch, there are some qualities of wine that could influence your health for the better. Christian Nordqvist, in “Wine: Health Benefits and Health Risks,” provides some interesting health-related properties of wine:
• A lower risk of dementia. Among moderate wine drinkers, the risk of dementia is 23% lower than for non-wine drinkers.
• A lower risk of breast cancer. This excludes the drinking of red wine, which can increase the risk.
• Lower risk of colon cancer. Moderate wine consumption can lower this risk by 50% according to some studies.

It’s important to note that research changes regularly and that each of the above benefits is linked with moderate wine consumption, which for many individuals constitutes one 250ml glass per day. Over-consuming wine has been linked with negative effects — so moderation is key.

While the jury may be out on the health benefits of wine, one thing is for sure: it’s worth enjoying! If you like to have a glass of wine from time to time, you’re definitely not alone. This is made clear by the following facts and statistics, starting with a brief history of wine drinking.

People have been drinking wine for centuries. However, in an illustrated history of the drink, VinePair divulges that the first winery was established in Armenia around 4100 B.C. As time progressed, the practice of fermenting grapes spread to Egypt around 3000 B.C., where the drink was used for ceremonial purposes.

As Egyptians came into contact with the Jewish people and Phoenicians, wine spread via these avenues as well, eventually traveling across Mediterranean by trade routes by 1700 B.C. Eventually, the entire world found itself familiar with the joys of drinking wine.

Indeed, wine knows no cultural limits and is enjoyed across the world. The Wine Institute recently released figures demonstrating just how popular the drink has become:
• In the U.S., an estimated 949 million gallons of wine were consumed in 2016. This equals out to around 2.94 gallons per adult.
• In terms of total wine consumption, the US remains the biggest wine market in the world.
• Among “high-frequency wine drinkers,” Chardonnay, Merlot and White Zinfandel are the most popular types.
• Among adults in general, fruity wines tend to be the most popular.

While everyone has a favorite or has room to develop one, it’s a certainty that the enjoyment of wine will continue to grow as time goes on.

Not all grapes are created equally — especially where wines are concerned. Various wine varieties are differentiated by the grapes they are made from. This means that developing a basic understanding of the grapes that make wine is important before moving forward.

The grapes you see at the grocery store are probably not used to produce your favorite wines. While it is possible to buy wine grapes on their own, they’re generally not made for straightforward consumption. Whereas table grapes are grown to be physically appealing and easy to eat — with more fruit on the inside and thin skin on the outside — wine grapes are meant to make better wine. This means they have thicker skins, higher amounts of juice and more seeds. They’re also smaller than standard table grapes and contain sweeter juices thanks to a higher sugar content.

You may be able to identify which grapes are being grown in local vineyards by looking at the growing style. Wine grapes grow on high trellises to increase sunlight exposure and to produce a higher concentration of grapes than those grown for eating.

Wine Enthusiast identifies the five most popular wine grapes in the world as: Chardonnay, Cabernet Sauvignon, Sauvignon Blanc, Pinot Noir and Merlot.

Chardonnay is widely popular due to the ease with which it can be grown. Because it ages well in oak or on its own, with a distinct yet varied flavor depending on the amount of residual sugar left in the wine and the region in which it grows, the grape lends itself to multiple tastes and palates. Don’t write off all Chardonnays after tasting just one!

Cabernet Sauvignon stands alone but is also popular in blends. It’s widely popular in the United States because of the optimal growing conditions found in California. The wines produced from the grape are generally known for deep, rich flavors and higher alcohol contents.

Sauvignon Blanc grapes grow around the world, from the United States to France and even distant New Zealand. Each country produces wines with distinct flavors, all stemming from the same variety of grape. The grapes lend themselves well to white wines, which accompany spicy foods rather nicely.

Pinot Noir grapes are difficult to grow but are extremely popular. The wines produced from Pinot Noir grapes are especially well-known in Burgundy, where bottles can retail for high prices attributable to the high quality and demand. Pinot Noir wines are generally bottled on their own without other grapes blended in and are known for a light to medium red wine flavor.

Merlot grapes are widely grown in New York and Washington but are also popular in Italy and South America. Merlot wines have a distinctive taste that tends to be more earthy than other reds, but is also balanced and mild compared to richer varieties like Cabernet Sauvignon.

These are just a few descriptions of the most common grapes you’re likely to find on wine labels. Finding your favorite among these may be a great first step. It might also help you identify similar wines that you may find enjoyable.

It’s important to note that various regions produce distinct wines based on the grapes they’re able to grow. If you find a wine you enjoy from a specific country, you may enjoy others from the same area. According to International Business Times, the most popular wine grape growing regions are:

You may identify — or have friends who identify — as strictly red or white wine drinkers. But understanding what separates one from the other, could be helpful. It’s easy to look at a glass of wine and determine whether it’s red or white, but what’s the real difference?

Red wines are made from red grapes. But more importantly, the grape skins are left on during the fermentation process. This provides an obvious color difference and the presence of tannins. Tannins are naturally found in the skins of many fruits, including grapes. Tannins are a central feature in red wines, providing a level of complexity that’s difficult to accomplish in white wines. When a wine is described as “earthy,” it likely contains a high level of tannins.

While white wines are typically made from white grapes, they can also be made from red-skinned grapes. Because the skins get removed from the grapes prior to processing, the wines remain white and free of the aforementioned tannins, making them lighter and less “full-bodied” in many cases. White wines are often described by their acidity levels and balances, which tend to be more pronounced than in reds.

Rose wines can be made from blends of red and white grapes or from red grapes from which the skins are removed early in the fermentation process. This allows for some of the color to remain but results in a lighter flavor with fewer tannins. Just like reds and whites, rose wines can be slightly sweeter or stark dry and can come from a variety of grapes.

When searching for the right wine, first consider its purpose. Reds are generally better for sipping slowly or for pairing with a rich meal, whereas whites tend to go well with lighter dishes or more “drink-forward” social events.

Consider the following terms a general glossary of what you may encounter on labels and during your explorations of the world of wine:
• Acidity: Acidity balances out “sweetness” in wine. If a wine tastes tart or bitter, it may have a higher acid content, which is desirable for certain tastes.
• Alcohol Level: On average, especially in the U.S., wines contain an alcohol content of 11.5 to 13.5 percent.
• Aroma: The “smell” of a wine, which may be pleasant or less pleasant depending on individual preferences.
• Balance: A balanced wine means all the components work together well without anything “standing out.” Generally, balanced wines are more appealing than unbalanced wines.
• Blend: A wine blend is comprised of multiple grapes. In blends, the bottle may describe what grapes have been included.
• Corked: A negative term that describes a bottle of wine in which the cork has become too dry, allowing too much air to come into contact with the wine. Corked bottles of wine have distinctly negative flavors.
• Dessert Wine: Dessert wines are typically sweeter wines meant to be enjoyed following dinner.
• Dry: By definition, a dry wine contains no residual sugar. It has been fully fermented until no sugar remains.
• Fortified: A wine has been fortified if a non-wine alcoholic beverage has been added to it. Brandy is the most popular option.
• Ice Wines: Ice wine is produced when grapes are frozen during the fermentation process. In traditional ice wines, the grapes are frozen on the vine. However, some wineries simply freeze grapes after harvesting. Ice wines require more grapes for production, leading to higher purchase prices.
• Oaked vs. Non-Oaked: Oaked wines are aged in oak barrels, whereas non-oaked wines typically age in steel barrels. Oak barrels provide a distinct flavor that’s appealing to certain wine enthusiasts.
• Reserve: Reserve wine has typically been aged by the winemaker before sale. The term comes from the fact that certain bottles are “reserved” for some time prior to sale.
• Residual Sugar: When fermentation is complete, the amount of sugar left is referred to as the “residual.” In sweeter wines, the process is halted so more sugar remains, whereas dry wines are left to ferment until there is no residual sugar.
• Table Wine: The term “table wine” is broad and refers to most wines with an alcohol content under 14%, according to U.S. standards.
• Tannins: Tannins occur naturally as compounds in trees and fruits — and especially in grape skins. They provide a distinct, earthy flavor that can only be found in red and rose wine varieties.
• Varietal: A varietal wine contains a single grape variety, as opposed to a blend.
• Vintage: A wine’s vintage refers to the year the grapes used to create the wine were harvested.

The Importance of Tasting: Learn About Wine and Find Your Favorites the “Right” Way

When visiting a winery or a wine store, it’s important to taste various wines to learn more about your own flavor preferences. This helps in developing a better sense of what labels and descriptions will be more appealing to you than others.

You’re welcome to simply take a sip of a few varieties, but you might learn more by tasting wines using the following tactics.

First, try to block out any distractions. This can be difficult, but remember that tasting during a limo wine tour with many friends might not be as productive as going with a smaller group to a quieter location. Both can be enjoyable, however.

Because color and appearance are part of any good tasting experience, take the time to look at the wine. Swirl it a bit and look at how it adheres to the glass. A richer wine with a higher alcohol content may leave more of a “residue” or “leg” than a lighter wine.

Next, give the glass a light sniff. Allow your body and brain to process the smell, which may help you anticipate the flavors you’re likely to encounter during the taste itself. Using all of your senses leads to a more successful wine tasting experience.

After you’ve given yourself time to process the scent of the wine, take a small sip and pull in a little air with it. Think about the way the wine sits on your tongue, including whether the flavor is something you enjoy or something you’d rather pass on in the future. Try to evaluate whether the wine feels “sour” — this could mean it has a higher acidity level — or “earthy,” which could indicate higher levels of tannins. Also, look for hints of flowery or “floral” tastes, citrus and other flavors that stand out. Think about what you find pleasant and what you don’t like. Then, follow up with the remainder of the glass.

Take notes throughout your tasting and don’t hesitate to try a wine a second time. More familiarity with a given wine might make you more confident in a purchase decision. As a best practice, save your wine tasting notes each time you partake and look back from time to time. You might find patterns that help you identify your favorites.

As you progress in your wine journey, be open to new tastes and recognize that certain flavors might sit better with you than others. Whatever you do, don’t limit yourself and have fun!

How to Store and Serve Wine

There are many misconceptions relating to wine storage and aging. It’s tempting to believe wines should be stored for a long time before opening because that’s what we tend to see on television.

According to VinePair, only 1% of wines require aging after purchase. Instead, a majority of the wines available today are meant to be consumed within five years. If someone brings you a great bottle of wine, why not open it and enjoy?

To preserve the integrity of your wine, remember three key words: “dark,” “cool” and “sideways.”

Light can prematurely age wine, which is unfortunate if you enjoyed it during the tasting process. This is one reason wines are traditionally stored underground. If you plan to store wine in your home, find a place with little or no exposure to sunlight and other artificial light. Dark is best.

Cool is not the same as cold. Wines that are too warm or too cold can lose their flavor or pick up less desirable flavors over time. Try to find a location that maintains a steady temperature as close to 55 degrees Fahrenheit as possible. If the temperature changes too frequently, the wine may expand and contract, causing undesirable interactions with the cork that can allow excess air into the bottle.

Wine shelves are built sideways for a reason. If a cork becomes too dry, it can allow extra air into the bottle, which can ruin a bottle quickly. If you’ve tasted a bottle of wine that has been “corked,” you’ll know right away. A sideways position keeps liquid up against the cork to prevent this.

Once you’ve opened a bottle of wine, enjoy as soon as possible. As a general rule, wines should be enjoyed within three to five days of opening. Whites should be stored in the refrigerator with a cork or bottle topper. Reds should be stored in a cool and dark location, also with a cork or bottle topper. Boxed wine is designed to last longer — up to a month after opening — due to the closure mechanism.

Additionally, sweet wines may have a slightly longer shelf life after opening than traditional bottles.

Go Out and Enjoy Your Wine the Way It’s Meant to Be Enjoyed

Congratulations! If you read through this entire guide, consider yourself a proud graduate of Wine 101!

We believe the best way to gain confidence as you move forward in your love of wine is to learn as much as possible. Over time, you’ll learn more about what you enjoy and what you’d rather pass on. We trust that by understanding a few basics, you’ll be better prepared to not only purchase wine but also decipher labels, take part in conversations with long-time wine lovers and add a little extra enjoyment in celebrations that include wine.

Want to know what wine to have for an upcoming special occasion or even just for pairing with your next meal? Take our wine pairing quiz and find the perfect wine pairing!

Want to learn more? We’d like to invite you to stop by our Rochester, New York store to browse our large selection and experience our customer service firsthand. Not local? That’s great, too! Visit our online wine catalog to shop from the comfort of home. Be sure to watch for selections that include free shipping and multi-bottle discounts.Rosé has been blowing up in popularity as of late — this often misunderstood and previously underappreciated pink wine has enjoyed mentions in rap songs and other media over the past few years. It’s even become something of an Instagram star and summertime staple thanks to its current status as a millennial fave. It’s affordable, refreshing and surprisingly sophisticated. Food-friendly and approachable, it’s just as good on its own as it is when paired with salmon – making it an easy choice, especially in warm weather.

Here is everything you need to know about how Rosé wine is made, what it tastes like and even a few of our favorite Rosé-inspired cocktails.

Rosé is a pink wine with the lightness of white wine made from a variety of grapes. The concept may be a bit confusing to the novice, as wines tend to fall into one category or the other, and leads to some skepticism from wine snobs and the pink-averse alike.

Rosé can be a dry or sweet wine that tastes similar to many white wines and offers a bright, more refreshing flavor than its deep red counterparts, making it the perfect sunny day drink on a Sunday afternoon or when you’re in the mood for something lighter.

Unlike Champagne or Burgundy, Rosé can be made with any grape from any region and is made all over the world — the United States, Spain, France, Italy, Australia and Chile all produce this type of wine.

How Do You Make Rosé Wine?

Contrary to popular opinion, Rosé wine is not a blend of red and white grapes.

Most of the time, Rosé wine is made exclusively from red wine grapes. These grapes have red skins, but the insides are white, meaning you can create a broad range of wines ranging from white to deep red.

The red wine grapes are slightly crushed before the fermenting process begins so the skins and the insides have some time to ferment together. Depending on the type of wine, this process can take as little as a few hours to several days.

At this point, the juice, and the solid skins and seeds, which are known as the must, are separated, and the juice is placed into tanks for further fermentation. As you might imagine, the longer the skins sit in the grape juice, the darker the finished wine will be and the more tannic the flavor.

In some rarer cases, Rosé is made by mixing white wine with red, but this is generally only used in low-quality or sparkling wines and by no means should be considered the standard.

Rosé, Three Ways — A Few Different Approaches to Pink Wine

Rosé wine usually is made one of three ways — all of which involve some initial contact with the grape skins as mentioned above, but they diverge slightly in their path from the tank to the bottle, depending on what type of Rosé you are trying to make.

Here’s a look at the more conventional approaches to how the Rosé is made:

Saignee approach has been used to produce some of the longest-lasting Rosés around. This method is a by-product of making red wine. About 10% of the grape juice is bled off during the fermentation process of red wine. For the red wine at hand, this means there is a higher skin-to-juice ratio in the tank, leading to more contact with the grape skins, more tannic flavors and a richer bodied flavor profile.

The bled wine is then fermented into a Rosé, albeit a much darker version than most Rosés you’ll find on the market.

Maceration is the most common method for making Rosé wine and refers to the point in winemaking where the grapes are pressed and then left to sit in their skins. When you make red wine, the grapes stay in their skins throughout the full fermentation process. In the case of Rosé, the juice and skins must be separated before the resulting wine becomes too dark.

Rosés made from lighter-colored red grapes like Grenache take upwards of a full day, while darker-colored grape skins may only hang around with the juice for a few hours.

Vin Gris is French for Gray Wine, and this method of making Rosé refers to making wine that is almost white. This process uses the maceration method but shortens the time grapes sit soaking with their skins to under a few hours.

Wines like Pinot Noir Rosés, as well as other lighter varieties, are made this way — which offers an additional benefit — the grapes can still be used to make another red wine. An economical method for wine makers, to be sure.

Hitting the Right Notes — What Does Rosé Wine Taste Like?

The pink color is what most identifies Rosé wines, but there’s so much more complexity to these wines than just their shared rosy hue.

In general, Rosé wines taste much like their red wine counterparts but are more subtle. In general, expect to get some notes of citrus, watermelon and a range of berries. Wines can range from super dry to very sweet and floral, and certain Rosés boast big, bold, meatier flavors or hints of spice, while others are cool and crisp or sweet like candy.

Dry Rosé wines have a low sugar content and high tannins. While they could be described as simply “less sweet,” they are best described as being slightly more bitter with a dry finish. This is similar to the tannins that give that signature bitterness and astringency to wines, teas, coffees and chocolates.

Dry Rosés are typically made from French, Italian or Spanish wines like Grenache, Tempranillo or Pinot Noir, though there are some exceptions.

Sweet Rosés are a bit more complex than that large box of white zin hanging out in your grandmother’s kitchen cabinet. “Off-dry” wine is relatively sweet, but it falls between dry and sweet on the scale of wine sweetness, making for a palatable sipper that’s sure to hit the spot any day of the week.

Sweet Rosés offer more in terms of versatility than their dry counterparts. They bring a sense of balance to bold foods, rather than being overpowered by spices or rich flavors.

Like many great wine stories, the Rosé story begins in France. The first French vineyard was in Provence, established when the ancient Greeks brought grapes to the South of France, sometime around 600 BC when they founded the city of Marseilles.

At this time, the Greeks were drinking wine, but most were as pale in color as the Rosés you’ll see on the market today. It’s likely the reason the first wines of Provence were Rosés rather than reds or whites is that the process of maceration had yet to be fully understood.

While Rosés are trending currently, many people don’t know that Rosé is one of the oldest wines around and, interestingly, has maintained a high level of popularity throughout the ages. Even with the Roman introduction of red wine centuries later, Rosé production and consumption held steady.

In the Middle Ages, long after the fall of the Roman Empire, monastic orders kept producing Rosé, a longtime staple in Provence, as a key revenue source for local abbeys.

Up until the birth of the railroad, Rosé stayed relatively contained to Provence, but the industrial revolution soon gave way to a greater fan base. Tourists could now access the famous pink wine, and imports were on the rise, sending Rosé to all corners of the globe.

Rosé All Day — How Pink Wine Became a Lifestyle Symbol

While Rosé has never really gone away, it’s also never been synonymous with sophistication in the same way as a high-end red wine. Rosé has long been a symbol of refreshment due to its subtle taste. While it doesn’t tend to get better with age — there are exceptions, but for the most part, there’s no real advantage to getting an older bottle.

Over the past ten years, there has been an uptick in Rosé consumption in the US. As the sale of cheap pink wines began to fall, Americans began to develop a taste for dryer Rosés, as many American tourists started bringing Rosé back from their travels in the South of France.

As the darling of social media and wealthy Hamptons vacationers, Rosé has become a lifestyle trend of sorts, promoting an ideal of luxury — summering with a glass of refreshing Rosé in hand.

Types of Rosé Wine — Yes, There’s More Than One

While the common misconception is that all Rosés are the same, this statement couldn’t be further from the truth. There are a few different types of Rosé wines, and the major difference here is which variety of grapes are used as the base. Some Rosé wines are sweet, while others have more challenging flavor profiles.

While it’s possible to make Rosé from almost any kind of red wine grape, some grapes are more known for their pinks than others.

To show that all Rosé wines are not created equal, here’s a quick look at the personalities of some of the more popular types of pink wine, along with recommended Rosé wine pairings:

One of the most common sources of Rosé wines around the world, Grenache, or Garnacha, grapes produce this lovely strawberries and cream combination when made into Rosé. Drinkers will delight in low-key red raspberry and black cherry, and in some cases, hints of cucumber.

Pairings: Grenache Rosé works really well with nightshade vegetables like tomatoes, bell peppers or eggplant, as well as cuisines like Thai or Indian with a high spice content.

A little bit spicy with cool weather spices like cloves, cinnamon, and allspice, the Sangiovese grapes offer a combination of melon and strawberry notes, finishing with a hint of mineral. This Rosé is both clean and acidic, perfectly refreshing on a hot day.

Pairings: Sangiovese Rosé is great on its own, given the variety present in the glass, yet it goes with just about any type of food. Hailing from Italy, Sangiovese works perfectly with Italian meats like prosciutto, salami and pancetta, so it works well alongside any cheese board. This Rosé also works well with curries or Chinese food since the bold blend of flavors keeps it from getting lost in the richness of the cuisine.

This Spanish wine offers a mix of fruity notes like strawberry and watermelon, as well as peppercorn and an overall rich flavor added to the mix.

Pairings: Tempranillo Rosés work really well with grilled or roasted vegetables, meats and more. Though most Rosés are already super versatile, Tempranillo Rosé is perfect for bringing out during grilling season as it can stand up to the hot dogs, steaks and burgers served at your classic cookout.

Easy drinking, Pinot Noir grapes offer subtle yet zesty citrus, melon, cherry and celery notes in one glass. Dry, yet delicate, Pinot Noir Rosés are full of flavor but bring a gentleness to the table.

Pairings: Great with floral spices like thyme or tarragon, Pinot Noir Rosés should never be overpowered with too many bold flavors. Think grilled chicken or fish seasoned with herbes de province, corn chowder or any number of seasonal summer salads with fresh greens and a mild dressing.

This particular grape makes for a lovely rich Rosé. Syrah-made wines offer hints of red and white peppercorns, cherry and even the smokiness of a cured meat topped off with a zesty lime finish.

Pairings: Syrah Rosé works best when it stays within the cuisine of its origin. Southern French or Italian cuisines really make this relatively meaty pink wine sing. Think of flavors like garlic and citrus, roasted vegetables, shrimp linguini and so on.

Also known as Zinfandel Rosé or White Zin, this is one of the most popular varieties of Rosé, especially in the United States. With its “off-dry” style, this wine is on the sweeter side, featuring notes like melon, lemon and strawberry with a little cotton candy thrown in for good measure.

Pairings: Best served cold as ice, White Zinfandel can take on bold flavors like Thai spices and curries, as well as fatty savory meats. Sometimes opposites attract.

While Rosés are one of the more surprisingly versatile wines on the planet, skip the dessert if you’re looking for a winning pairing — no matter what variety you’re sipping on. Sweet foods might highlight the taste of the alcohol in the wine, making it fall flat or taste bitter.

In general, sweet Rosés are versatile. They help balance out hot and spicy foods or tone down saltiness.

Rosé Cocktail Hour — Mix it Up with Pink Wine

What’s better than Rosé straight from the bottle? Drinks made with Rosé wine! With their nuanced fruity notes and sweet pink color, nothing is more effortlessly festive than a Rosé cocktail served with a garnish in an ice-cold glass. Plus, there’s room for experimentation — Rosé is relatively inexpensive, so you won’t have to worry about wasting fine wine.

Here are some of our favorite Rosé wine cocktail recipes, which are sure to impress all your friends at your next dinner party or group hang:

It’s time to reclaim punch. Maligned as a questionable school dance staple, the punch bowl has a bad rap. However, with some Rosé wines, fresh fruit and a splash of vodka, this grown-up fruit punch is king among big-batch party drinks.
• If desired, serve with ice on the side, so the punch doesn’t become too watery.

A lighter, and let’s face it, more grown-up version of your basic margarita, this Rosé cocktail is the perfect summer sipper complete with fresh lemon, pink wine and, of course, tequila. This recipe yields one cocktail, but you can always multiply the recipe and place it in a glass pitcher for guests.
• Put together the garnish. In a small blender or food processor, add lemon zest, salt and sugar.
• Blend until all ingredients are thoroughly mixed and set aside in a small, shallow dish.
• Fill a shaker or pint glass with ice. Add the tequila, Rosé and lemon juice, then shake.
• Press the rim of your serving glass into the salt mixture, then gently pour the margarita mixture into the glass.

Let’s dress up that Rosé! Delicious grapefruit and orange liqueur take your basic Rosé champagne — although we do hesitate to call it basic — up a notch. This easy cocktail is the perfect accompaniment to any egg-centric brunch or the first cookout of the year.
• Place basil leaves in the bottom of a pint glass or shaker tin.
• Muddle the basil by pressing firmly on the leaves with a muddling tool and gently grinding the herbs. This process helps break down the chlorophyll, which may leave a bitter taste behind.
• Add orange liqueur and grapefruit juice to the same container as the basil and shake or stir vigorously.
• Transfer muddled mixture to serving glass and pour Rosé champagne over the top.
• Garnish with a lemon slice or additional basil, if desired.

Do you want to learn more about Rosé? Below are some of the most common questions we receive — and answer — about Rosé wine. If you have another question, feel free to reach out to our team.

What Kind of Wine Is Rosé?

As described above, Rosé is a pink wine, though it has white wine’s lightness. This type of wine can be made from a variety of grapes, as what sets the pink wine apart is the time it ferments with the grape skins — Rosé is taken out of the fermentation process earlier, which gives this variety its pinkish hue instead of the traditional deep red. This difference in the fermentation process also gives Rosé a lighter flavor.

What Does a Rosé Wine Taste Like?

Rosé is equally lighter in color and taste. When you take a sip, you may realize that this wine is a bit crisper than traditional red wines. This effect is due to its natural notes of citrus, watermelon, berries and rose petals. Rosé’s taste can vary significantly — from sweet to spice — so you can try several options to find a flavor that fits your preferences.

The beauty of this wine is that it can be sweet or dry, often depending on its country of origin.

More traditional Rosé wines from Europe will be on the drier side as they are made with high tannins, which are derived from the fermenting red wine grapes’ seeds, stems and skin. However, you can still enjoy this variety if you have a sweet tooth. Modern Rosé made in the United States tends to be made with more syrup, creating a sweeter flavor that makes the wine more versatile.

In short, yes and no. Moscato is a white wine that is almost always on the simpler and sweeter side. Rosé is a red wine with a higher degree of variety in its flavor profile. It is possible to find a version that is close to a Moscato in sweetness, but as a red wine, Rosé will typically have drier, more complex notes.

Is White Zinfandel the Same as Rosé?

White Zinfandel is under the umbrella category of Rosé but has its own distinct flavor profile. Rosé can range in its flavors as it can be made with any red wine grape, but White Zinfandel is unique because it is made with specific Zinfandel grapes. This distinction makes White Zinfandel a type of Rosé wine.

Thirsty Yet? Get Your Rosé Wine Fix at Marketview Liquor

Rosé is one of the best deals out there, and exploring the different types is one of the best ways to find your favorite. At Marketview Liquor, we’ve got a full range of Rosés from dry to sweet and slightly bubbly — perfect for brunch, grilling out, or a summer night on the patio.

Enjoy a wide range of Rosé wines at every price point and style with shipping across the United States. If you want to try out a variety of different brands and types, check out our mix and match case discounts on select wines. In addition, we offer free shipping on select bottles when you buy six or more at a time.

In the Rochester, New York area? Order online for in store pickup, or visit us in the store.Seasonal Wine Guide: Everything You Should Know

If you’re new to the world of wine, trying to find what fits your taste or have been a fan of all things wine for some time, you’ve probably noticed certain wines just seem to taste better at certain times of the year and around specific celebrations.

While we believe every season is wine season, certain wines pair better with specific seasons and celebrations. Grape seasons and growing times vary, as do the dishes we eat at various times of the year. While your favorite wines might taste great regardless of what’s happening outside, others may be best paired according to specific months and seasons.

Need help Choosing the right wine for a particular season or occasion?

In this seasonal wine guide, you’ll find everything you need to know about what makes certain wines better with various seasons. You’ll learn how to select the right wine for events, hostess gifts and more as the calendar changes.

Red wine? White wine? These questions themselves, let alone which variety of each, can be confusing. The hundreds of brands available in your local store — while wonderful — might not be the most helpful.

Selecting the perfect wine doesn’t have to be intimidating. With a little information, you’ll feel like an expert in no time. Find out how to select the best:

Our goal is to make you more comfortable no matter where you shop — at a store or from the comfort of your home.

WINE YOU CAN BUY FROM THE CONVENIENCE OF YOUR HOME

Shopping for wine should be fun, not a struggle! After reading this guide, know that you have experts and an easy source to turn to for trying out your soon to be favorite wine.

At Marketview Liquor, we provide a large selection of great value and hard-to-find wines. We make it easy for you shop online with discounts on cases and free shipping options on select bottles. While orders can be picked up in person at our Rochester, NY, location, they can also be shipped across the country, making it easy to shop regardless of your location.

Shopping online has traditionally been expensive, but our large warehouse facility, low overhead costs and long-standing partnerships enable us to provide low-cost options, making purchasing wine online more affordable than ever.

Since 1972, Marketview Liquor — a family-run business — has made it our mission to make wine more accessible while sharing our love and knowledge of the wine industry. We pride ourselves on providing customer favorites while continually expanding our inventory. We believe in providing the same level of service online as we do in stores, making it pleasant and affordable to shop according to your preference.

If you’re ready to learn more about selecting the right wine for the right season, dive into this guide, and then visit the wine selection of our website to get started.

We’re excited to help you select the perfect wine for your next occasion!

If the idea of heading to the store to buy the perfect wine for a specific occasion feels overwhelming, that’s okay. If you hear people talk about grape seasons, tannins and finishes and get a little anxious, you’re not alone.

In the United States, 40% of adults drink wine, with 35% considered “high frequency” wine drinkers. While wine is obviously popular, the sheer amount of wines produced and variety of terminology can make it seem overly complicated when it should be a fun process.

To get started, this chapter will give a brief overview of wine including it’s history, some fun facts and how to get started choosing a wine. You’ll be a wine pro in no time!

Whether wine is one of your favorite pastimes or something you’d like to enjoy to a fuller extent, you’re a part of a rich heritage. While local wine-making has experienced a recent resurgence in popularity, wine production and enjoyment is an ancient tradition.

In fact, humans have been enjoying wine since at least 8000 BC. This is when — thanks to archeological artifacts — historians have discovered evidence of grape domestication in ancient Egypt.

Following this period, Chinese wine production emerged around 7000-6600 BC. Archeologists have discovered pottery from this time that likely contained fermented beverages consisting of honey, rice and fruit — possibly grapes.

From there, wineries probably sprung up — the world’s oldest known winery was found in a cave in Armenia that dates back 6,100 years. While it likely looked much different than the wineries we enjoy today, it’s interesting to imagine what a trip to a winery may have been like in those times.

Wine production in Europe continued — and grew — through the 1870s, when a major outbreak of phylloxera took place and destroyed most of the grapevines in the region, wreaking havoc and putting the wine process on hold. Beetles were responsible for the devastating outbreak.

Eventually, wine made its way to the Americas, in a format similar to that which we enjoy today. While the continent had native grape vines, most of the wine we enjoy in modern times has evolved from grapes brought here by Spanish conquistadors. Many of these were crossed with native varieties, creating the full spectrum of wines that are favorites today.

Because the production of wine was halted during prohibition, most modern wines in the U.S. have been cultivated in the last 90 years or so, and the number continues to rise. 60% of wine purchased in the United States hails from California, 9% from other states, and 30% from other countries. Wine production continues to rise yearly. In the U.S. alone, there are over 8,700 wineries.

Today — wine is enjoyed widely across the world. Here in the United States, the average adult consumes 2.94 gallons of wine a year.

How to choose a wine – General Guidelines to Get Started

It’s easy to assume — based on experience — that you like or dislike a certain wine, whether you’ve had the opportunity to taste it. Some of this is science — our taste buds do vary — and some is based on experience. The important thing to remember is to remain open to new ideas because you can find what you truly enjoy most.

To start narrowing down your tastes, think about the foods you appreciate in general. Are you a sweet food eater? Do you delight in spicy foods? What about full-flavored, thick pasta sauces? As you narrow down your tastes, you’ll find the wines you like may follow a similar pattern. Those who prefer spicy foods may better tolerate deeper reds. Those who go for light sauces might favor a light white over an earthy red.

After considering your favorite foods, consider the wines you’ve enjoyed in the past. Instead of focusing solely on grape varietal, take the time to read labels for words that stand out — “citrus finish,” “light,” “dry,” “full-bodied” and so on. While you may not completely understand the terms, other wines with similar descriptions might also be appealing to you.

By remaining open, instead of limiting yourself to a single grape variety, you may be surprised by what you find!

Wondering what the difference is between a red wine, a white wine and a rosé? The answer might not be what you expect:
• Red wines are typically made from black grapes, and they include the grape skins for pigment. When you hear the word “tannins,” it refers to the presence of grape skins, which alter the taste of the wine. Red wine accounts for 46.3% of wine purchases in the United States.
• White wines generally come from white grapes, although they can be made from black grapes without the skin — and, therefore, without the tannins and color. About 44% of wine purchased in the United States is white.
• Rosé wines come from black grapes. However, after a short period of time, the skins are removed. This reduces the presence of tannins and allows a sweeter flavor to come through.
• Sparkling wines come from a multitude of grapes, some with skins and some without. The wine is infused with carbon dioxide to create bubbles. Sparkling wines have different names depending on the region of the world from which they hail.
• Fortified wines have brandy or other spirits added, which creates a higher alcohol content.
• Dessert wines include a higher concentration of sugars for a sweeter flavor, making them optimal for dessert.

In case you’d like an idea of what others enjoy before jumping in, consider the following most popular wine varieties according to a WineBusiness.com survey:

The numbers show little differentiation between reds and whites – many enjoyed varieties on both sides.

By experimenting and trying different varieties, you’ll have a better understanding of what you enjoy most!

What influence does season have on wine? If someone asks you to find a great summer wine for a cookout, where should you start?

First, think about the temperature at which the wine is best served. For winter, wines that are served at a warmer temperature — like deep reds — might be a better accompaniment to stews and other heartier foods that are also enjoyed during the season. Likewise, lighter, white wines or sweeter varieties that are best served cold might be more refreshing during the warmer months of summer.

Then, consider the food that will be served during your upcoming event. Richer foods with thick sauces might pair better with a deeper, earthier wine, whereas a light pasta salad or grilled meat might be better accompanied by a lighter wine.

To make your purchase with even more confidence, consider the purpose of the wine you’ll be purchasing. Are you looking for a great “front porch” wine to enjoy as a refresher? If so, a lighter, cooler wine could be perfect. On the other side of the spectrum, if you’re planning on sitting by the fire to escape the cold, a spicier or more hearty wine might be best.

As you continue through this guide, you’ll learn more about specific wines for each season, along with some suggestions. Also, remember that no wine is absolutely limited to a specific season. If you’re a red wine aficionado, a fuller red can be perfect all year. The same goes for those who enjoy a summery white all year.

Wines That Go the Distance

The most important part of wine drinking is that you find true enjoyment in it.

Some wines do go the distance, though. For example, rosé wines, due to their versatility, can be enjoyed regardless of the month on the calendar. Also, certain trends make it clear that certain wine drinkers enjoy their favorites, no matter what. In fact, 79% of adult wine drinkers prefer to drink white wines throughout the entire year.

There’s nothing wrong with sticking to your favorite. Keep that in mind as we move forward.The days are longer, the temperatures are warmer, and you’re gearing up the grill to awaken from its winter dormancy. There’s only one question left — what wines pair best with all the foods and events that make up summer?

From crisp reds to rich rosés to white wines so nuanced and juicy, they taste like fresh-squeezed summer fruit, we’ve got your guide to the best summer wines and wine cocktails. If you’re hungry, we’ve got summer food-wine pairings, too, ensuring your palate never strays far from the ultimate summer wine experience.

Good summer wine is subjective. However, there are a few rules for picking and pairing wines during the summer season to maximize its sipping experience.

White wines should ideally be served between 49 and 55 degrees Fahrenheit. For red wines, that serving temperature bumps up to 62 to 68 degrees. Chill your red and white wines in the fridge a few hours before decanting, particularly during the summer months when you’re drinking outside.

2. Look for Wines With Moderate Tannins and Moderate Bodies

Tannins are a chemical compound common in many different plants and responsible for the astringent, puckering sensation associated with wine. A wine’s body refers to how it feels on your tongue — not so much the flavors, but the heaviness, strength and spots it hits while you drink.

Specific wine varietals have stronger tannin profiles than others. A higher tannin concentration or lower tannin quality results in bolder, heavier wines, which then tends to produce a stronger body.

While full-bodied wines are certainly not off-limits during the summer, lighter reds and whites will be more refreshing. This makes them a natural pairing across summer’s hotter, humid months.

The heady, vanilla and caramel flavors so typical of oak-aged wines can result in heavier-bodied wines too rich for summer palates. Unless pairing with foods that call explicitly for such wines, look for white and red wines that haven’t been aged in oak barrels.

4. Always Consider What You’re Eating

Summer reintroduces a new palate of fresh and in-season foods. While it’s always important to pair your meal with your wine, make the best of summer produce and seasonal dishes by following these general food-wine matches:
• The lighter the fare, the lighter the wine — and vice-versa. Full-bodied wines hold up to the heft of ribs, steaks and meat kebobs, while lighter wines balance foods like gazpacho, summer charcuterie boards and garden salads.
• White sauces, mustards and vinegar-based barbecues play nice with lighter-bodied, sweet, dry wines with bright acidity.
• Red sauces and tomato-based barbecue works with fuller-bodied, deeper and dryer red wines.

Continue reading for specifics on the best red, white and rosé varietals to drink during summer.

From the crisp and aromatic to the fruit-fragrant, lively and tart, white wines have a definitive place at the summer picnic table or backyard barbecue. Opt for these summer white wines at your next seasonal gathering:

Rieslings are a fruity and highly acidic white wine varietal with origins in modern-day Germany.

Unlike other white wines, rieslings are available in both dry and sweet forms, depending on the region of origin. However, all bottles of riesling come harmonized by their high acidity. Rieslings are one of the most acidic white wines on the market, yet maintain a thin, zippy body coaxing forward plenty of nuanced fruit flavors. Together, this makes this varietal a perfect wine choice on a hot summer day.

Opening a bottle of pinot grigio is akin to walking through a summer garden. Prepare your nose to greet earthy perfumes of jasmine and honeysuckle flowers, citrus trees, fresh-cut grass and even a woodsy wet mulch.

While one of the least fruit-forward white wines, pinot grigio offers that medium-body, low-tannin yet high-acidity balance for crisp summer sips.

Sauvignon blanc earns its way on our list of good summer white wines for a distinct reason — its versatility. While other white wines’ full fruit profiles or high acidity levels align them with specific types of summer foods, sauvignon blanc offers a broad pairing template.

In fact, sauvignon blancs work particularly well with foods that are notoriously difficult to match with wine. Think umami-forward produce like artichokes and asparagus, sulfuric cruciferous veggies like charred cauliflower and kale salads or the bright bursts of tomatoes and garlic in bruschetta with a balsamic drizzle — all summer foods, all enhanced by a good bottle of sauvignon blanc.

Viogniers encompass everything you want in a good summer wine — a medium-light body, bright, fruity flavors and a full yet lively texture rounded out by medium-low acidity.

This set of traits makes viogniers a distinctly “drinkable” white wine and a favorite for outdoor picnics or barbecues. Stick with the unoaked varieties though, avoiding the tongue-coating richness that strikes with oak-aged viogniers.

Champagne is a tongue-tingling, crisp and often celebratory beverage made from half a dozen grape varietals grown in the aptly named region of Champagne, France. The area’s distinctly chalk-rich soil is the secret to the grapes’ bubbly pop, which producers concentrate via a unique blending process with roots tracing back to brew-mastering French monks.

You can choose from a range of flavors among Champagnes and other sparkling wines. Yet nearly all sparkling wines make an effervescent and refreshing drink best suited for the summer months, where their distinct texture and bright, vivid notes elevate any gathering.

Never fear, red wine lovers — summer provides plenty of opportunities to enjoy those lush, rich red-wine flavors without succumbing to a too-bold or too-heavy beverage. We suggest any of the following to make up your selection of the best summer red wines.

There are three general commercial categories of the French regional red, the Beaujolais — the Beaujolais Nouveau, Beaujolais Villages and — most notable — the Beaujolais Crus.

While many wine connoisseurs have traditionally snubbed the Nouveaus in favor of the more expensive and complex Villages and Crus, all three make excellent choices for summer wine drinking due to their fundamentally juicy flavors, bouquets and tamed acidity. Beaujolais are also one of the only red wine types meant to be chilled, enhancing its lighter body and pushing those juicy fruit notes to their most refreshing mouthfeel.

You can’t go wrong with a glass of gamay in the summer. This red wine varietal isn’t often the star of the table, yet gamays strike a perfect balance between light, berry notes and tart, tangy aromatics, fading softly on the palate rather than lingering like other red wines. Gamays are also famous for their distinct banana scent, which is most poignant right after opening and decanting. Gamays are a medium-high acidity, low-tannin red wine that both red and white drinkers will approve.

Chianti is an Italian red wine classic celebrated for its easy food pairings and accessible nature. Because they’re a blended red wine on the earthier yet acidic side, a glass of Chianti works wonders with sweet and savory summer dishes, including grilled red meats like burgers and steaks.

Like others on this summer red wine list, Chiantis can also be served chilled without muddling its flavors. While it courts a higher tannin count, Chianti’s bright acidity and balance of fruity and herbaceous notes energize rather than overpower the palate.

Dolcetto wine seems to contain some of the most prized features from other red wines all in one — it has the silkiness of Merlot with the sweet effervescence of Beaujolais, blended with the earthier pops of reds like Chianti and cabernet sauvignon. Dolcettos are also dry yet medium-bodied and medium-tannin. Altogether, you end up with a lush, nuanced and delightful red wine with Goldilocks tasting properties — not too sweet, not too sour; not too heavy, not too light.

Don’t let looks deceive! While full-bodied and dark, Barbera wine contains a distinctly sweet taste to anyone enjoying a glass. This is thanks to its low tannin count yet high acidity, which leaves a pleasant pucker alongside tangs of ripe summer fruits. Barberas are also one of the most economically priced summer red wines, due in part to their low aging range — one to four years, on average.

No list of the best red wines for summer would be complete without the perennial favorite, pinot noir.

Lush, juicy and silky, pinot noirs are characteristically drinkable on their own or alongside an array of meat and veggies. Cold-climate pinot noirs like those from Oregon, New Zealand and France will have just a touch more acidity, while warm climates such as Argentina and Sonoma ripen the varietal faster and bring out the tannins’ supple sweetness.

Rosés are a blend of multiple grape varietals and can taste dry, off-dry or sweet, depending on the base combination. Yet there are few drinks that so strongly encompass summer as a chilled glass of rosé, a wine type balancing the tart crispness of most white wines with the fruit and herb nuances associated with reds.

Look for summer rosés made from red or white varietals that are good summer wine selections on their own, including many on this list. Rosés blended from an already summer-friendly type of grape sets you up for easy drinkability and pairing. We recommend the following summer rosés.

Blended chardonnay, Chenin blanc and pinot noir grapes create a sublime rosé that’s one of the lightest and fruitiest on the list. Chenin blanc and pinot noir grapes lend their signature red and citrus fruit pops, while the chardonnay tones down the juicy tangs into a mellow, freshly baked bread finish. New and seasoned rosé drinkers will be equally impressed.

Cava is a type of Spanish sparkling wine similar to champagne but made using white or rosé grape blends. The latter category is particularly dynamic since rosés so often incorporate both red and white grape varietals on its own.

Once married with cava, these rosés develop light, sharp yet more herbaceous flavors than many other rosés and make for an excellent pre- or post-dinner summer aperitif.

Light, fragrant and refreshing, this trio of grapes produces a rosé encompassing summer in taste and bouquet. While the heartier Cinsaut grapes lend depth to extend the drink’s lush mouthfeel, it’s the Grenache-Syrah’s bright punch that genuinely makes this rosé summer-ready. Cinsaut-Grenache-Syrah blends work particularly well with smoky and salty foods, their citrus-sweet nose and aftertaste of Provencal herbs cutting through dense umami flavors.

Pinot noir is one of the most popular grape varietals made into rosé — and for good reasons! In rosés, the sweet, silky grapes create a lean and delicate profile with soft, fruity aromas and an airy finish. Pick a pinot noir rosé for late afternoon and evening summer events, where the wine’s dry zip pairs perfectly with many foods, from appetizers down to fruit-infused dessert pies.

Looking for the best wines to pair with your summer foods? Whether dining on the patio or plating on the picnic blanket, these food-wine pairings capture the best of what summer flavors offer.

Pinot noirs are the textbook complement to pork. Its robust body is balanced by a silky-smooth mouthfeel that mellows meat dishes without stealing their Maillard-reaction show. With its simultaneously smoky, tangy and caramelized flavors, slow-cooked barbecue pork ribs find no better companion than the rich yet smooth pinot noir.

Creamy meets tangy when summer-staples like potato salad and coleslaw are lightened by the lively zip of a fresh, crisp riesling. Opt for sweet, late-harvest varietals for the best balance of flavors. You get a more sophisticated dance of the riesling’s sour-sweet notes since the grapes benefited from extra time to ripen on the vine.

Veggie-based dishes like grilled or roasted kebobs can be notoriously tricky to pair. Unoaked sauvignon blancs provide a mild yet earthy backdrop that’ll harmonize each of the kebob’s individual veggie flavors, plus celebrate their seasonings. Always bear in mind, though, the produce-wine pairing golden rule — the lighter-colored your kebob’s fruits and veggies, the lighter you’ll want your wine, and vice versa.

Marinated shrimp skewers offer a lighter summer fare that works as both a side and a main. Amplify the shrimp’s grilled char with the zesty, burst-in-your-mouth juiciness of chilled red zinfandel. The two flavors are complemented rather than overpowered by the other.

5. Corn on the Cob and Oaked Chardonnay

Remember when we said to be careful with summer wines and oak? Well, rules are made to be broken. Especially when it comes to grill-kissed corn on the cob, served hot and fresh with a chilled glass of oak-aged chardonnay. In this case, the chardonnay’s toasty vanilla-cream notes are a match made in heaven for corn’s natural, sweet crunch. You might even skip that extra smear of butter!

Few dishes scream summer as much as a fresh watermelon salad adorned with sharp, briny feta. Add arugula, basil or mint to the party, then serve with a glass of chilled rosé. Go for a dry rosé to let the sweetness of the watermelon sing, while the wine’s tang will bridge the feta, fruit and greens.

Another pair sent by the food gods, summer sausage brings the perfect savory spice to a summer charcuterie board. For sausage seasoned with common Italian herbs like garlic, oregano, mustard seed and even coriander, pair it with an equally revered Italian treasure, Lambrusco. The high-acidity, highly fruity Italian red wine cuts through just enough of the summer sausage’s fat to cleanse your palate — before you reach for another slice.

Feeling fancy? Smother your lobster rolls and crab cakes in beurre blanc, a white-wine reduction made from melted butter, shallots, fresh chives, rosemary and tarragon. Match the wine-soaked seafood with an equally nutty but lightly blended White Burgundy — the cousin of chardonnay. You can’t go wrong here with a chilled Chablis.

Smoked beef brisket’s heavy, savory succulence is instantly brightened by the lush berry notes of a good bottle of Beaujolais. The red wine’s soft tannins and delightfully sweet tang round out the full spectrum of flavors to this quintessential summer dish.

Is it even summer without s’mores around a campfire? The ooey-gooey sandwiched goodness is amplified when washed down with a glass of sweet Madeira. The fortified wine carries notes of toffee, cinnamon, berry compote and coconut all in a single sip, adding depth and complexity to the campfire classic.

Why pick just one? Get the best of both worlds with wine-based cocktails featuring some of summer’s signature flavors and ingredients.

Sangria is the ultimate summer drink — mixing fresh seasonal fruits with refreshing wine and liquor of your preference, usually brandy, you can prep sangria in a few minutes and proudly bring it to any summer get-together.
• White sangria directions: In a pitcher, combine 1/3 cup sugar with 1/3 cup brandy. Stir until sugar dissolves. Add one 750-ml bottle of dry, fruity white wine such as Viognier, Muscadet or Spanish Albarino, plus one cup of chopped strawberries, one cup of chopped peaches, one sliced lemon and one sliced lime. Finish with a can of lemon-lime soda or lemon-lime sparkling water. Stir and serve over ice.
• Red sangria directions: In a pitcher, combine 1/3 cup sugar with 1/3 cup brandy. Stir until sugar dissolves. Add one 750-ml bottle of sweet, fruity red wine like pinot noir or Syrah, plus one cup chopped strawberries, one cup chopped peaches, one chopped green apple, one sliced orange and one sliced lemon. Finish with 1/2 cup orange juice or unflavored sparkling water. Stir and serve over ice.

Don’t snub the spritzer just yet! Versions of this classic cocktail exist for both red and white wine lovers, offering a fresh and invigorating beverage for hot summer afternoons or to pair during an outdoor cocktail hour.
• White wine spritzer directions: Combine 3 oz. off-dry white wine, such as sauvignon blanc, Chenin blanc or riesling, with 1 oz. club soda. Add a dash of bitters, then stir with ice. Garnish with an orange slice.
• Red wine spritzer directions: Combine 3 oz. off-dry red wine, such as Sangiovese or Burgundy, with 1 oz. club soda. Add a dash of bitters, then stir with ice. Garnish with an orange slice.

Love rosé? Love slushies? Love impressing family and friends with festive summer cocktails? Meet frosé, your new best friend.
• Directions: Open one 750-ml. bottle of dry or sweet rosé — your preference. Pour 2/3 cup into a glass and set aside for serving. In a blender, blend remaining rosé with 1 tablespoon of honey and 10 strawberries, tops removed. Pour into a pitcher and freeze overnight. Scoop and serve when ready, adding a splash of the saved rosé to taste to individual servings.

Pick the Right Summer Wines for Every Occasion at Marketview

Good summer wines shouldn’t take a good portion of summer to find.

Stop by Marketview Liquor to remove the hassle from hunting down the perfect bottles of wine and wine cocktails for your summer gatherings. You can also browse one of New York’s largest online wine catalogs stocked in our warehouse — many of which are available for quick and convenient home delivery!

Summer Wines to Add to Your List

Your summer wine list has arrived. Consider the wine types below as a starting point:

Still have questions? We’re here to help!As mentioned in Chapter 5, certain holidays deserve their own special attention, especially during winter. In fact, 94% of adults in the United States celebrate at least one winter holiday. As you prepare for upcoming celebrations, pay special attention to the way wine might fit into those celebrations.

Regardless of your religious background, many

winter celebrations are hard to pass up on. In fact, New Year’s Eve is one of the most celebrated holidays around the world and one of the oldest. It was first celebrated in Babylon 4,000 years ago.

Because winter is a time of celebration, wine and spirits are frequently involved. During November, wine sales are at their highest, representing 37% of all beverage sales, as buyers prepare for winter holidays. But, as sales are advertised, and you start to shop for winter events, do you know where to start?

We’ll focus on two of the most celebrated holidays in the world: New Year’s Eve and Christmas. Take your enjoyment of each up a notch or two this year by focusing on special wine pairings as you plan and attend various parties.

What Makes a Wine Better for the Winter?

Our festive winter holidays not only lift our spirits, but they also add jubilation to the shortest days of the year. Christmas arrives four days after the winter solstice, with New Year’s Eve a few short days later — we need something to lift our spirits during the dark days.

Wine is one of our most trusted go-tos. But how can one wine be suited for the winter, while others are suited for summertime? The answer is that a wine’s heartiness, viscosity, acidity and temperature all play into making it season-appropriate.

One crucial factor to consider is how a wine pairs with food. When you think of winter foods, you probably imagine richer, heartier meals: stews, chili, pot roast, meaty soups, turkey, ham and similar mouth-watering dishes. Summer dishes, on the other hand, include lighter food like seafood and salads. The common factor among winter meals is the prevalence of meat and fat, which sticks with us as we make our way through chilly days.

What makes a wine pair well with hearty winter meals? Winter wine typically have:
• Thicker, heavier textures: Winter wines mimic the foods they complement. Options like cabernet sauvignon, zinfandel and even port wines make for delicious choices. They’re different from popular options chosen in the summertime when light, acidic wines prevail. Chardonnay and sauvignon blanc are more appropriately paired with lighter fare like salad and fruit.
• Warm serving style: There are some obvious exceptions — cue the cork popping on New Year’s Eve — but in general, we serve winter wines at room temperature. When you get into the world of mulled and spiced wines, you’ll find that some are even served warm, which is the perfect way to stay toasty on cold nights.
• Less fruitiness: In the summer, fruits abound. They make it into our salads and become our appetizers. In winter, however, we are more likely to see fruits in the form of jams or glazes. Winter wines reflect this change in that contain less acidity and fruit in their makeup.

The Best Wines for Thanksgiving

Thanksgiving dinner can be a challenging meal to pair wines with because of the huge variety of flavors in the meal itself. Turkey and mashed potatoes are heavy, which is contrasted by items like seafood casserole, vegetables and any other family food traditions thrown into the mix. It’s like trying to match one shirt with twenty pairs of pants. However, you can rise to the occasion. A great way around the complexity is to offer several different wines. Those going for rich food can pair with rich wine, and anyone who prefers lighter can choose accordingly.

Here are five great wine decisions to make at a Thanksgiving table:
• Start with something bubbly: Thanksgiving is a celebration of fa

 mily and friends, and it’s great to have an appetizer wine for starters. A rosé pairs with most everything found in a Thanksgiving feast and is sure to please guests.
• Have a sparkling white wine ready: Of course you’ve already got bubbles, but a slightly heavier sparkling white can pair with certain dishes that a bubbly can’t. It also gives anyone with a taste for white wine a festive choice.
• Make a heavier red available as well: Malbecs, with their sumptuous, dark color and bold tannins, round off the wine list by pairing with those heavier items on the table. Their dryness makes them palatable with rich meals, and they’re also one of the most popular wines around — a safe choice for large groups.
• Put out a dry riesling for more pairing variety: Rieslings are aromatic, fruity and acidic, making them perfect for pairing with zestier and lighter Thanksgiving dishes. This wine is an extremely versatile choice that you will find has appeal among many dinner guests. It’s the acidity doing the heavy lifting here — the slight bite adds a sprinkle of excitement that many wine lovers will crave.
• Remember your dessert wine: You now have a good selection of dry and semi-sweet wines on the table. A sweet dessert wine wonderfully caps off a great meal. You can go for a lightly sweet wine like a chenin blanc or a Müller-Thurgau, but Thanksgiving might be the perfect occasion for a so-called “noble rot” wine. Though these beloved wines are sweetened by a spore rotting their grapes, the result is delicious and smacks of ginger and honey. Some examples include Sauternes, Tokaji and auslese.



Christmas is a time for family, gathering around to celebrate old traditions, reminiscing and enjoying the happiness that can only come from being close to those you love most.

Often, the holiday is accompanied by traditional food that may vary according to your heritage, heavy feasts, cookie baking — and eating, and special desserts that are only enjoyed during this time of year. Because of the overall specialness of the holiday, the wines you stock up on should be up to each occasion. They should provide satisfaction while complementing traditional dishes. At the same time, they should be versatile enough for all tastes to enjoy them.

As a universal holiday favorite, red wine is generally a win. Certain varieties may be more holiday-appropriate than others. These include:
• Malbec. Filled with earthy tones, Argentinian Malbecs are the perfect accompaniment to Christmas delicacies and traditions.
• Bordeaux blends. Made by combining Merlot and Cabernet Sauvignon, Bordeaux wines are keenly sought after around the world, especially around Christmas. Each winery uses different proportions, so actual flavor can vary greatly from one Bordeaux to another. If you’re not in love with the first Bordeaux you try, keep trying — your favorite is likely out there somewhere!

It’s easy to enjoy white wine, even as the holiday season approaches. One that might be a surprising favorite is Falanghina. Wines made from this grape offer a freshness and balance with clean finishes, perfect for a variety of Christmas dishes and occasions.

Another holiday-appropriate wine option might include a little extra spice. Spiced wines — either created by adding your own spices or purchased already spiced, are frequently served warm. The options for spiced wines are endless, meaning it’s easy to find something that fits most palates.

Champagne for New Year’s and Champagne Alternatives

When you think of New Year’s, Champagne is probably one of the first things that comes to mind. It makes sense, 360 million glasses of sparkling wine are consumed on New Year’s Eve alone. Often, it feels like everything on television and pop culture promotes the idea that expensive is best, but is that always the case?

Not necessarily. Consider the following ideas and pointers to find the best Champagne or Champagne alternative for your winter celebrations.

First, think about the wines you enjoy most. Are they sweeter or dryer? Your taste in champagne will likely be similar. Doux champagnes are sweeter, while Brut champagnes are dry. If you dislike dry wines, you’re likely to love a brut, so stick with what you like — not which bottle has a label you recognize or a high price tag.

Next, find the right grape. Champagne and champagne alternatives can be made from Chardonnay, Pinot Noir or Pinot Meunier. The traditional style, made in Champagne, France, includes all three grapes in a white blend. Champagnes, like sweet or sparkling wines, are less likely to include a vintage, as the date is less critical to the production of the drink.

Remember, Champagne belongs to a specific region. Other alternatives that may be worth considering include Cava — the Spanish version of sparkling wine, and Prosecco — the Italian version. Each contains various grape combinations that may be more enjoyable than other traditional styles.

As you prepare your New Year’s wine selection for upcoming celebrations, consider the following options:

In the same way the smell of bacon can tempt the staunchest vegetarian, the irresistible aroma of spiced wine can convert even those who don’t have a palate for wine. In its odor is not only fruit and cinnamon but also an evocative image of coziness on a winter night. What’s more, spiced wine is one of the most fun concoctions to cook up — it absorbs practically everything you throw at it. Many people dream up their own spiced wine recipes and tweak them a bit each time.

Spiced wine usually benefits from a wild sense of creative freedom. If done well, the outcome is euphoric. If done poorly, however, it can be overpowering and saccharine. You want the spiced wine to be the centerpiece of your holiday party cocktails, and here’s how to make that happen:
• Pour a bottle or two of red wine into a cooking pot or crockpot. Which type of red wine is up to you, though full-bodied wines will handle the extra flavors better. Stick to dry wines, as you don’t want to make the drink too sweet. Bring it to a simmer.
• Add apple cider. This will bring necessary sweetness and fruity flavors to the spiced wine, as well as a late-autumn feel. Add two cups of cider per 750-milliliter bottle of wine.
• Put in cinnamon, cloves, honey, star anise and cardamom. These spices will make your house smell like heaven. You can add either cinnamon powder or sticks. Sticks of cinnamon can either be strained out or left in for visual appeal.
• Throw in some fruit. A good guideline to stick to here is making your spiced wine emulate a warm apple pie. Sliced apples are a great choice, as are slivers of oranges or mandarins. You can also add other fruits like berries. It would be difficult to add enough fruit to over-sweeten spiced wine.
• Consider adding packets of mulling spices. These packets are ready-made to add to your wine. In general, they’re a great option for flavoring the drink if you don’t feel like gathering all the needed spices yourself. You’ll still want to add fruit, though.
• Let the wine cook for an hour or so. It needs to cook on low heat, which will allow the wine to soak out flavor from the cinnamon sticks, star anise and other spices.
• Throw a ladle in it and serve it warm. The great thing about a crockpot is that it can go on the drink table instead of the stove, allowing you to keep your cooking space free. Additionally, the wine will stay warm until the last cup is gone. Watch people’s reactions as they smell the spices and fruits and ladle it into their cups — and don’t forget to grab a cup for yourself before it’s all gone.



How to Please All Wine Drinkers at a Christmas Party

Christmas dinner consists of some staple dishes, which means it’s not too much of a challenge to plan for wines that will pair. But what about a Christmas party, where people are likely to be eating finger foods and chips?

At a Christmas party, it’s not just about your winter wine cocktails or holiday mixed drinks: it’s about selection. We all have different tastes in wine. It’s difficult to please everyone — some like reds and others whites or rosés. A whole other scale of preference comes with wine-dryness options. So how can you please everyone with your Christmas-party drinks? Much in the same vein as Thanksgiving, you’ll need to offer a selection that caters to a variety of tastes. Here are some wine suggestions:
• Chardonnay: This is a reliable go-to for parties due to its versatility and popularity. Depending on where you look, it is either the first or second most popular wine in the country — and it even pairs well with poultry and many other dishes. An added benefit of chardonnay is that you can usually grab it for under $20.
• Cold-weather whites: Plenty of white wines are perfect for cold weather. Chardonnay is one of them, but don’t be afraid to get a little more exploratory. A 2011 Louis Jadot Macon-Villages tastes incredible with chicken, fish and richer hors-d’oeuvres. Gewürztraminer is a German wine whose grapes are grown in cooler temperatures, though it’s also produced in areas of northern California and the Pacific Northwest. These wines will pique the interest of anyone wanting something a little different from chardonnay.
• Pinot noir: Pinot noir is about as popular as chardonnay — it will knock out a large chunk of different tastes in your party. Plus, much of the world’s pinot noir is grown in cold weather, and the spectrum of flavors available in it are compatible with winter wines. Cold-weather pinot noir is earthy and bold, and the fickle nature of the grapes leaves many surprises to be discovered.There’s never a wrong occasion to drink wine. Celebrating life’s fullest moments, though, is almost always made better with a glass of wine uncorked for the occasion.

Perhaps it’s a surprise birthday bash, an anniversary, a dinner party or a hard-earned promotion. It could be a housewarming or retirement gift. Maybe you’re just looking to toast the end of a pretty great week. Whatever the reason, a good wine commemorates the occasion and brings loved ones closer together. Raise your glass to these great wine choices for your next special celebration — and make sure to provide plenty of glasses.

Best Types of Wine for Every Special Occasion

The best celebratory wines match the atmosphere, represent its honoree and — of course — taste delicious.

Need a little help pairing occasions with wine? We’ve got your back. Below, you’ll find a list of life’s most savorable moments, complete with what wine to pick for nearly any celebratory occasion, plus how to go about best serving it. Happy celebrating!

You may have just spent a small fortune nabbing that degree. But you don’t have to spend a fortune for delicious, high-quality wines everyone at the party will enjoy.

Opt for white or rosé wines at this kind of celebration. Graduation season nearly always occurs during late spring and early summer. That means warmer weather and the likelihood of an outdoor graduation party, complete with an array of food options to satisfy any guest.

A Chilean Sauvignon Blanc is a great bang for your buck and will play nice with almost any kind of party fare. Go the extra mile by finding a good dessert wine to go with the graduation cake, like this deep, chocolatey port from Montevina Terra D’oro.

Show your mom how much she’s loved with a bottle of wine.

If you’re having a celebratory brunch, find a wine meant for easy sipping. You can’t go wrong with sparkling wine, which you can use to mix mimosas, bellinis and many other brunch-friendly cocktails.

If your mom is the adventurous type, wow her with a bottle of vintage Spanish cava. This cousin to champagne comes in three varieties, with Reserva and Grand Reserva Cava the most complex and inspired.

Sure, beer may be the proverbial drink associated with dads. Yet one out of every 10 men actually prefers wine over beer, creating the perfect opportunity for you to impress and delight your old man.

Aged cabernet francs dance deliciously between sweet vanilla and malty tobacco notes. Their rich palate also holds up well to many charred and grilled meats for your celebratory Father’s day barbecue — or whatever meal dad picks for his special day.

Outdoor picnics mean cold-cut sandwiches, veggie platters, salty chips and potato salads — approachable foods that hold up well in the outdoor heat. The relaxed nature of a picnic calls for an equally unpretentious wine that can be sipped between frisbee tosses or while lounging in the grass.

Bright, refreshing gamay and Beaujolais work great here. These lighter red wines are fruit-forward and ultra-refreshing, perfect when you next picnic fancy strikes, celebrating good weather, good friends or just an open afternoon at your favorite park.

Bigger and redder is better when it comes to barbecue feasts — with a few exceptions.

Californian Cabernet Sauvignon brings bold tannins and punctuating acidity that is the go-to for fattier barbecue meats, like pork ribs drizzled in tangy red sauce. For lighter barbecue fare, such grilled chicken breasts or meat-and-veggie skewers, look for a medium-bodied but high acidity wine, like Sangiovese.

Each of these wine selections elevates your backyard cookout celebration, plus are great ways to expand your friends and family’s palates beyond usual backyard drinks. They’ll help make your next cookout a memorable one.

Nothing provides a better toast at an engagement party than Champagne. This drink’s bright, fragrant bubbles are crowd and palate-pleasers, plus the go-to beverage to signify a momentous occasion.

Many people are surprised by the sheer diversity of Champagne on today’s market. You will often see words like “brut,” “cuvee” and “gran reserva” stamped onto Champagne labels. But what do these words really mean — and are they important when picking a celebratory bottle?
• Brut is a French-derived description for unsweetened or dry Champagnes
• Cuvee is another French wine term. It indicates a Champagne bottle is a specialty “house” mix of grape varietals unique to the producer, and that the Champagne itself was created using the one-press method
• Gran reserva, or grand reserve, reveals wine from a particularly high-quality year that’s also been aged

Remember, it’s most important to pick a Champagne type you think drinkers will enjoy. For celebrations like engagement parties, that will likely mean an off-dry or semi-sweet Champagne. Whether that bottle is a cuvee or gran reserva is between you, your curiosity and your budget.

Wine makes an exceptional gift to honor your spouse, your best friend, your boss — really whomever — as they transition from their working life into retirement.

Pick a bottle whose spirit signifies the time and commitment the individual invested in their career. For example, red wines aged for five, ten, even twenty years will perfectly commemorate the honoree’s own professional timeline or years spent in a role. Red wines that age exceptionally well include varietals like Nebbiolo, Syrah and Spanish Tempranillos, especially those from the acclaimed Rioja region. Just make sure aged wines have been stored properly before gifting. That means in a cool, dark and low-humidity room mimicking a proper wine cellar.

Dinner parties are a celebration, too! These gatherings round up friends, family and colleagues over something that brings everyone together — good food. Throw a few great bottles of celebratory wine atop the special feast, and all guests are in for a treat.

Consider these food and wine pairing tips for your next dinner party:
• Meat-based dishes: When serving red meat dishes, stick with heavy, full-bodied red wines like a cabernet sauvignon, malbec or French red Bordeaux. Leaner white meats, by comparison, go better with an earthier sauvignon blanc or pinot gris.
• Grain-based dishes: Grain-based dishes like risottos and rice pilafs go great with a full-bodied chardonnay. Similarly, pasta with red sauce is a match made in heaven for the aromatic, high-acidity Italian Barbera.
• Vegan or vegetarian dishes: Sauvignon blanc plays well with the unique umami profiles of most vegetables. This white wine varietal is also one of the few that goes with asparagus and artichokes, the banes of wine pairing.

Welcoming a new neighbor? Toasting your best friend in their new condo? A celebratory bottle of wine does just the trick, showing your excitement for this new chapter in another’s life.

For this kind of special occasion, select a bottle of wine that’s versatile enough to be enjoyed on its own or eaten with a meal. Such chameleon varietals include the ever-silky staple pinot noir, the fruity yet spicy grenache or — for white wine lovers — a dynamic, off-dry Mosel Riesling.

Few things set that romantic tone quite like sharing a bottle of wine. Harness your inner Romeo or Juliet by selecting a special bottle for you and your date, with a meal you’ve prepared or at that new restaurant you’ve been scoping out.

For date nights, opt for a wine varietal that is both elegant and offbeat. This combo will help make your date feel intimate yet more special, with the wine enhancing your meal and overall romantic experience.

We like French Chablis for couples who prefer white wines, and an elegant Mourvedre for those on team red.

Sports games, festivals, outdoor concerts and more often involve tailgating beforehand. These are fun, atmospheric events where wine and fun should be plenty — and you shouldn’t have to spend a fortune to have either.

Given tailgating takes place outdoors, stick with lighter-bodied wines with refreshing palates. You can even consider a variety of white and rosé wines meant to be served chilled. Some of our favorite rosés to drink on hot days are pinot noir, cinsaut and syrah-based, lending depth and flavor to each glass without going overboard. Moscato d’Asti also makes a delightful white wine to drink during special outdoor events, low in alcohol but zippy and sweet.

What better way to celebrate the opening of a new career door than by opening a celebratory bottle of wine?

New jobs call for wine both lively and energizing — just like the rush of landing that dream position. A Gewurztraminer does the trick, with its ginger-citrus aromas and striking fresh pineapple tang a perfect representation of an exciting new career opportunity.

Likewise, a promotion should be toasted with bold, flavorful old world cabernet sauvignon, perhaps from the varietal’s homeland of Bordeaux. Old world cabs lean heavily on their savory, earthy notes, though you’ll still experience those tongue-tickling plum and stewed berried flavors signature of a good cabernet sauvignon.

Pregaming is the celebration before a celebration. Some of the best times shared with friends happen in the comfort of each other’s homes, sipping a few drinks before exiting for a night on the town.

Pregaming takes a bit of balancing, though. It calls for flavorful, crowd-pleasing drinks but should stay on the lower-alcohol side — especially if there’s a long night in store.

Wine varietals like or Muscadets, German Rieslings and Moscato d’Asti all have ABVs below 10%, making them savvy selections for those celebratory pregaming drinks.

Can you hear the wedding bells? We sure can — especially after toasting the bride and groom with any number of celebratory wines fit for the occasion.

The events leading up to a wedding call for wine pairings that are equally festive, warm and romantic. A juicy Beaujolais served with a wedding rehearsal dinner makes a pleasing celebratory statement, as do other gamay-based blends like gamay-noir or a gamay-cabernet sauvignon.

Like the bride and groom themselves, wedding receptions and wine are also a match made in heaven. Go for a classic Champagne toast during dinner to commemorate the big day. Or, for a creative twist, consider sparkling rosé to help make the wedding’s entire atmosphere pop.

Celebrate the excitement of moving in with a new friend or partner with an equally exciting, dynamic wine.

Think off-the-beaten-path for this one. That move-in day rush only happens once, so make the most of it by sharing a new red or white wine varietal neither of you has tried before.

For white wines, viogniers are a medium-bodied, aromatic and nuanced choice best enjoyed on its own but in good company. If you and your roommate prefer reds, opt for one of Northern Italy’s most precious varietals, the Barolo. Its rich, ruby-red profile is an intense, tannin-centric and highly acidic choice sure to commemorate your first day in your new home.

Anniversaries are one of the most intimate and special days of the year. Partners get to pause, unwind and come together to commemorate their relationship.

Have some fun when selecting wines for your anniversary celebration. You can pick a red or white wine that’s been aged the same number of years you’ve been together, or select a bottle whose characteristics match your relationship.

There’s nothing quite like a surprise visit from a loved one. Seeing their face can instantly brighten your mood, topped with the thrill that they set time aside to travel and see you.

Such special occasions require a wine that’s just as fun, bright and light — and maybe even unexpected in flavors. Chenin blanc fits the bill. This white wine type is breezy and light-bodied but packs a serious flavor punch. Expect notes of honeysuckle, peach, nectarine, cherry blossom and more wrapped up in each sip. Surprise! You might just have a new favorite white wine.

Wine makes an excellent birthday gift, either as a solo bottle, a pair of complementary varietals or an entire case. Yet the best birthday wines reflect the recipient themselves, in taste, preference and personality.

Don’t worry if you’re not sure of the birthday gal or guy’s favorite type of wine. Chardonnay, cabernet sauvignon, merlot and pinot noir are the top-grown and top-consumed wine varietals in the world. Chances are selecting one of these as a birthday wine will be a gift in itself — one the whole party can enjoy.

How to Pick Wine for a Special Occasion

Forget finding a sommelier. Select the perfect wines for different occasions by following these simple suggestions.

Pick a wine whose profile in taste, body, aromas and mouthfeel seems to fit the atmosphere of your special occasion.

Throwing an upbeat party? Why not go for something light and bubbly, like a few different types of sparkling wine? Looking for a cozy date night-in with your partner? Try a rich, decadent red that’ll feel like a hug all night long. Hosting friends who are visiting from another state? Try to source local varietals from your area and their’s — then see which you like better! Pairing wine with the atmosphere like this shows thought and attention to detail, no matter the celebration.

In general, cooler weather tends to favor richer red wines, while warm weather and zippy, lighter white wine and rosé make a good match. This wine-weather rule of thumb is especially important if your celebration takes place outside, with guests exposed directly to the climate.

Rules are made to be broken, though! There are an exciting array of red wines that play well with hot weather, just as there are white wines perfect for those cool winter nights.

Don’t stress over learning how to pair wine with food. Trust your judgment! Richer, heavier meals — like pasta, risotto, curries, stews and red meats — enjoy equally heavy, robust wines that can keep pace with their flavors. Likewise, lighter fare — charcuterie, bruschetta, salads, cold sandwiches and general finger foods — like a light, bright wine. It’s really that simple.

What better way to show your care and appreciation for someone than by gifting a bottle of their all-time favorite wine?

This is especially great for birthday wines but works well for plenty of other social situations and special gatherings. Younger drinkers, say at a graduation party, may prefer lighter, sweeter wines, while more experienced wine drinkers will welcome a more complex bottle. Even gifting the host of a party their favorite type of wine scores huge points. Try it — we guarantee you’ll keep making their guest list!

There’s a world of wine just waiting to be discovered. Be curious! Try out the same varietal from different countries, then note their differing tastes, textures and smells. Or deep-dive into a wine-growing region to get to know what the hype’s about. Whatever makes enjoying a bottle of wine a special occasion in itself is the real celebration.

Impress your party and uncork your wine skills with these tips on how to best serve your celebratory wine.

At first, serving glasses can be confusing. Why are some so wide and others so tall and thin? Why do these have long stems — but these over here have no stems at all? Does any of this even matter?

The short answer? Yes, it does. The shape of a glass will determine what smells and aromas reach our nose, which in turn alters the taste of the wine. The wrong vehicle will either block or overwhelm these all-important olfactory notes from doing their job. You and your guests will be left with a beverage not living up to its true potential. Though don’t worry, no one will call the serving glass police on you.

Check out our expert’s guide to wine serving glasses for an in-depth look at which wines go with which glass types.

Decanting is when you open a bottle of wine ahead of time and pour it into a second serving vehicle, known as a decanter.

Certain types of wines — usually red — require decanting a few hours before drinking to unleash their full flavors and aromas. Decanting quite literally “lets the wine breathe,” creating a chemical reaction within the liquid that results in a superior wine-tasting experience.

The temperature of the wine, that is! Red wines should generally be served at room temperature, around 62 to 68 degrees Fahrenheit. The majority of white wines are served a bit cooler, between 49 and 55 degrees Fahrenheit.

Proper-temperature wines ensure a beverage looks and tastes as it should, plus preserves the wine in optimal conditions before it is even opened.

Find a serving spot where your wines will be on full display, or where it’ll be easiest for you to grab and serve at your leisure. But don’t stress too much about it. You’re here to celebrate with friends and family. Good wine is just the cherry on top.

Marketview Liquor’s extensive wine inventory means you get the wine you need for any special event, planned or surprise.

Browse our online wine catalog, then place your order to get wine delivered right to your door!Beginning to tackle the world of wine can sure be a challenge. For one, it seems sommeliers — wine professionals — have it all down, from provenance to regions and all the notes along the way. Even the pronunciation can be daunting at first. Yes, wine can be something of an acquired taste, but many uninitiated wine palates find it easier to start off with something sweet. Sweet wines don’t come with that bitterness — similar to coffee and hoppy beer — that takes some getting used to.

Many people start out drinking sweet wines as an introduction of sorts into a wider world of wine drinking, as most people need to get used to the high tannin content found in red wines. By starting sweet, you can get comfortable with wine through sipping on Rosés or Moscatos and eventually move on to Merlots or Cabernet Sauvignons.

Everyone is different, and as a result, so is every palate. There’s no guarantee any certain wine will be more agreeable than any other, but in our experience, the sweet wines are an excellent starting point because they have more nuances than they normally get credit for.

Before We Begin: The Sweet Variety of Wine

So how do wine makers and sommeliers determine a wine’s relative sweetness? They typically use a chart known as a dryness scale. The drier a wine, the less sweet it’s perceived as being.

The least sweet wines are considered dry. The scale ranges from dry to very sweet on a point-system in the following order – dry (00/0), off-dry (1-2), medium dry or semi-sweet (3-4), sweet (5-6) and finally, very sweet (7+).

Where a wine falls on this scale is dependent on a couple of factors. These include the residual sugar, or rather the sugar that was not converted into alcohol during the fermentation process, and how much acid is in the wine.

The grape’s age at harvest also plays a part in how sweet or dry a wine is. Young grapes have less sugar and more acid than mature ones, making ripe grapes ideal for a sweeter drink. Some winemakers may infuse more sweetness into the grape after harvest by sunning it in natural light. It is a combination of various growth, harvest and fermentation factors — rather than a single condition or quality — that determines the sweet or dry level of a wine.

There are some exceptions. For example, many champagnes are labeled as being dry, despite generally tasting pretty sweet. Wines like Dry Rieslings or Gewürztraminers still tend to taste sweet. Most red table wines fall firmly into the dry category, despite variation in sweetness between varieties.

It often comes down to tannin content. Tannins are a naturally occurring compound found in wine and other foods or drinks that clash with the proteins in saliva to create a dry, bitter taste or mouthfeel. Wines with more tannins will have a drier taste than wines with few tannins, regardless of sugar content.

While many of us only have experience with a few different sweet wines, like a Riesling, there’s a whole world of wine possibilities just waiting to be explored. We’ve put together the ultimate guide to sweet wines, sorted by reds, whites and pinks, as well as which foods work best with each type.

A smaller category than reds and whites, pink wines often offer the best of both worlds, a little sweetness and a punch of rosy color. Most pink wines are wines made from red wine grapes, yet produced like a white wine. Here’s a look at some of our favorite pink or rosé wines:

A Pink Moscato is very similar to its white counterpart. It’s a sweet dessert wine with a slightly bubbly finish. It typically has notes of peach and apricot, as well as hints of berry, pomegranate and cherry. Pink Moscato is actually a white Moscato with a tiny bit of red grapes added in for a different flavor.

Pink Moscato pairs best with fruit, so think “light and delicate” when considering dessert, and skip the heavy chocolate cake or anything too dense. We suggest looking toward berry pies or tarts or a piece of fluffy white cake topped with strawberries, or perhaps something a bit more citrusy.

On the savory side of things, you can also use Pink Moscato as a lovely way to complement light lunches or a summertime dinner outdoors. In this case, think about pairing the wine with an aromatic Thai salad with cilantro, citrus and chicken. It also goes well with seafood such as oysters, shrimp, lobster and clams – just avoid drenching them in any heavy cream sauces.

A moderately sweet pink wine, White Zinfandel features a sweet lineup of flavors like cotton candy, berry and melon. White Zinfandel is much sweeter than other rosé wines because it lacks some of the dryness found in its other pink counterparts. Drinkers may find it more refreshing than Pink Moscatos or other very sweet dessert wines.

White Zinfandel is full of fruity, melon notes. It’s best to offset the sweetness with a bit of spice. Try pairing it with Thai or Szechuan cuisine for a high contrast blend of flavors, or you could go more traditional and pair this wine with bacon or pork, creamy pastas and mild cheeses like brie.

Sweet red wines might sound a bit like a contradiction to those who aren’t well-versed in wine culture, as well as those long time wine drinkers that never thought to give it a chance. We’ve compiled a list of some of our favorite types of sweet red wines.

A wine made from Muscat of Alexandria and Schiava grapes, Black Muscat is a unique blend of medium bodied red wine, with a hint of Moscato. This wine is quite earthy, featuring tasting notes of rose as well as a hint of sweet tea.

While it is sweet, Black Muscat is still a red wine- meaning it pairs well with both milk chocolate and dark chocolate, and rich desserts like chocolate mousse. To take your dessert to the next level, warm fruit dishes like poached pears or a chocolate cake with raspberry sauce drizzled over the top. These pair very well with Black Muscat.

A red wine from Northern Italy, Schiava at first tastes a bit dry, but quickly reveals sweet notes of cherry, cotton candy and cinnamon, along with a slight floral essence. Sometimes Schiava is a bit hard to find, but should you be so lucky, it’s well worth the wait. If you can’t find it, try a blended wine that features it such as Porta Vita Rosso – 750ml.

To offset the sweet cotton candy flavors of this unique wine, look for something on the opposite end of the flavor spectrum. Think flavors like baked ham, cured meats like salami or prosciutto, and hard sheep’s cheeses like pecorino.

Lambrusco is a sweet and fruity Italian wine in the midst of a resurgence. It is made from about ten different types of grapes, and is slightly sparkling, with notes of raspberries, blackberries, cherry and almond. Many bottles also contain some floral aromatics such as roses and violets, adding an extra layer of depth to the overall flavor.

Lambrusco goes well with almost all kinds of pork — salami, prosciutto, pulled pork, or even rich, herbal Italian sausages. It also complements a burger, lamb, or even steak- really any heavy meat flavors. In terms of cheeses, Lambrusco best complements hard cheeses like parmesan, pecorino or any aged cheeses.

An Italian sparkling red hailing from the Brachetto region, this is a lesser-known, slightly sparkling dessert wine made from a light and refreshing red grape. This delicate red wine is full of lively notes of fresh raspberries and strawberries, with a faint rose petal aroma. Though this wine is bubbly, it’s much lighter than what you’ll find in a Champagne.

Brachetto d’Acqui is best served chilled and works well when paired with flavors that match the tasting notes found within the wine. Strawberry shortcakes, raspberry tarts, peach or plum pies, all work quite well with this little known sparkler. If you’re looking for a more interesting dessert juxtaposition, Brachetto d’Acqui is one of the few dessert wines that goes great with chocolate. Try it with chocolate hazelnut desserts, or a light and airy mousse.

Here, you’ll find the bulk of the sweet wines. While not all white wines are sweet, in general, they provide more of a sweetness than red wines, which are typically known for their bitterness—an acquired taste for many new wine drinkers. Here’s a look at some of the sweeter white wines out there, ranging from dessert status to the only slightly sweet.

A sweet, slightly effervescent wine, most Moscato wine refers to a type of sparkling wine known as Moscato d’Asti, a grape variety from the Piedmont region of Italy. Moscato is light and fresh, filled with a blend of fruit flavors like pineapple, lime, pear and orange. In some cases, Moscato will taste similar to apple or grape juices. Moscato is low in alcohol and is often served with the dessert course of a meal.

Moscato works surprisingly well with a wide range of foods. In terms of dessert, the wine works great with apple or pear tarts, pastries with a buttery flavor or with nuts, as well as with caramel, butterscotch and more. Additionally, Moscato is a fine companion to spicier dishes or lighter meats chicken, turkey or even seafood.

A white wine grown in the Rhine region of Germany, Riesling is loaded with a number of aromas ranging from perfumed florals to apples, pears and peaches, and a touch of something mineral. Because of its light, clear flavor profile, Riesling can be heavily influenced by the soil in which it grows, far more so than other types of wine.

While Rieslings hail from Germany, they tend to work quite well with a number of Asian cuisines like Vietnamese, Thai and Indian foods, known for both their pungent flavors and distinctive spice combinations. The high acid content in Riesling counteracts spicy flavors and provides a nice palate cleanser for those looking for some relief.

A German wine with a flavor profile similar to that of Moscato, Gewürztraminer has a slightly higher alcohol content than its Northern Italian counterpart, featuring an interesting lineup of fruit flavors like lychee, peach, pear and grapefruit, as well as ginger, honey and rose petal. In some cases, you’ll get a hint of a smokiness which adds another layer of nuance into the mix. Although Gewürztraminer does not have a lot of residual sugar to sweeten its flavors, its stronger-than-average aromatics and low acidity often make it taste sweeter than it is.

Gewürztraminer pairs well with a variety of foods. It works particularly well with poultry, pork and shellfish, as well as dishes heavy on spices like Thai curries, stir-frys and hot peppers. Naturally sweet vegetables are a nice complement to this sweet wine’s fruity notes. Think red onion, bell peppers, squashes or carrots. In terms of cheese, leave the stinky flavors behind and look for brie, provolone or other mild, softer cheeses.

A white wine from France’s Loire Valley, Chenin Blanc isn’t always sweet, but brings notable acidity and clear minerality with hints of honey. This wine comes in a number of styles. Some bottles have more of an oaky flavor, white others feature bright fruity notes like a crisp green apple, pear or peach.

Chenin Blanc works really well with rich dishes, as the acidity helps cut though the fat of meats like duck or pork, as well as spicier cuisines, giving the palate a sense of relief in between heated bites. Drier versions of the wine work with sweet foods and can really take your dessert to the next level. Pair with apple pie or a lighter cake.

One of the most expensive dessert wines out there, Sauternes is a white wine from the Bordeaux region in France. This region and style rely on a friendly fungus known as noble rot, which adds a nuanced sweetness into the mix. The flavor profile of Sauternes is equal parts acidity and sweetness. It features a slight nuttiness, combined with honey, peaches and apricots.

Sauternes are rather complex for a dessert wine. They work great alongside brie or similarly- creamy cheeses, as well as fruit pies and tarts. Perhaps unexpectedly, they also work well during the main course. Try pairing this sweet wine with tender rich meats like veal, foie gras, salty hams, briny fish and foods with high spice content. The fruity acidic flavors cut through fats and spice with ease, and harmonize with other complementary sweet flavors.

A Hungarian white wine, Tokaji actually gets its unique flavor from a fungus that grows on the grapes, called grey mold or botrytis. Most conditions during the growing season cause mold to show up on the grapes, which then dries when the sun comes out. This causes the grapes to shrivel up, which results in them producing a sweeter flavor- characterized by notes of ginger, saffron and beeswax. Tokaji wines are all very sweet and are rated according to how much residual sugar can be found within each bottle. Many contain a similar sugar content to that of a soda.

Tokaji is traditionally paired with foie gras, the sweetness of the wine is the perfect foil to the goose liver’s inherent fattiness. Tokaji wine also works really well with a number of cheeses like Comte, blue cheese, brie or a number of goat cheeses. Because Tokaji is so sweet, it seems to work best when paired with something salty or very savory, rather than a dessert dish.

Port wine falls slightly outside of the categories of white, red or even pink wines. Though typically made from a collection of red wines, this style offers a more alcoholic take on sweet wine, meant for sipping on its own or as a rich companion to dessert. Port, as its name suggests, hails from Portugal and is fortified with a bit of brandy for good measure, bringing the alcohol content up a few points higher than traditional wines.

The youngest and most common variety of port wine, ruby port combines a number of different wines to make a single bottle that features a mix of red berry aromas, along with caramel and nut flavors. Though noticeably sweet, the high alcohol content and unique blend of rich flavors mean this wine packs a powerful punch.

Port is often enjoyed at the end of a meal rather than during the main event, however, it can be a lovely addition to dessert or even alongside appetizers. Ruby port works quite well with desserts featuring milk chocolate or dark chocolate, or fruit pies. Creamy cheeses also work well with this hearty dessert wine. Look toward blue cheese or fresh berries that complement the fruit notes found in the wine.

Tawny ports are comparable to Scotches and Cognacs — spirits known for the nuances picked up throughout the aging process, as well as their strength and nuance — though they only contain about half of the alcohol content. Tawny ports feature a sweet blend of vintage wines and due to their maturity, tend to have nuttier flavors like fig, date or prune, as opposed to the fresh red berry flavors one can expect to find inside a bottle of ruby port. Tawnies are generally released in 10, 20, 30 and 40-year-old batches, and as a result, tend to be rather expensive, though in some cases, you may be able to track down a bottle for just over $25

Tawny ports work best when coupled with aged cheeses like cheddars, Stiltons or Manchegos and some sliced crusty bread. On the other hand, desserts like pumpkin pie, cheesecake or caramel desserts work well with tawny ports as well. Nutty flavors and cooked fruits echo the wine’s subtle notes and make them a great pairing option

Made from a combination of white wines, white port is rather uncommon, but it can be a nice alternative to heavier versions of the beverage. A fortified wine, white port has a higher alcohol content than most wines, typically hovering around 18-20%. Many people use this to make a mixed drink akin to a gin and tonic, or as the base for a sangria.

White port is surprisingly versatile and works well with sushi or pate, as well as nuts and hard cheeses. It also works really well with stone fruits like peaches, plums or nectarines, and can be a nice sipping companion to a light sponge cake for dessert.

As you’ve seen, every wine has its own flavor profile that makes it the perfect complement to specific sweet and savory foods. That said, there are a few general rules to keep in mind as you consider which dish to pair with your next bottle:
• Create a balance: Create balance by pairing your sweet wine with equally bold flavors. Some sweet wines pair exceptionally well with spicy dishes, while others bring out the earthy flavors of mushroom and nut infused meals. Sweet wines are ideal with strong cheeses, and you can create a delicious salty-sweet sensation by pairing it with cured meats and brined food. You can pair acidic, sweet wine with rich desserts as well. Sweet wines also balance sour flavors, or you can choose a lighter sip to equal out an indulgent bite.
• Complement existing flavors: Use your sweet wine to complement existing flavors by matching prominent flavor notes. For example, sweet wines and sweet shellfish pair nicely, while rich wines are the ideal pairing with deep, caramelized flavors in sweet and savory broths or sauces.
• Do a trial run: If you’re unsure whether your chosen wine will help or hinder your meal, have a small trial run before serving. Sample a small bite and sip of your flavors together and note what you like or don’t like to move forward.
• Wine for dessert: When it comes to dessert wines, like a Sauterne or Moscato, it’s ok to let their decadent sweetness shine on their own. In fact, many sweet wine types are best enjoyed when they are the star of the dessert course, rather than paired with an equally sweet bite.

Learn more about this delicious collection of wines by consulting our FAQ and getting the answers you’ve been searching for.

What Kind of Red Wine Is Sweet?

There are many sweet red wine varietals to fit a range of preferences. Explore our sweet red wine collection to see which ones best suit your tastes. You’ll find options like Moscato, merlot, Lambrusco, zinfandel and sangria.

What Wines Are Sweet and Fruity?

While wine sweetness has a determined scale, caused by residual sugar in the drink, determining “fruity” flavors can be a bit more challenging. Someone’s “stone fruit” notes can be another person’s “bitter” profile. In essence, determining fruity flavors depends on the person and their personal associations with esters, or compounds found within the wine. Esters are what make foods and drinks smell and taste certain ways, and everyone experiences them differently.

That variation in taste perception means you’ll likely have to do a little exploration to find the best sweet, fruity wines for you. Still, if you prefer fruit notes over earthy ones, port wines are a great place to start your search.

When you’re considering wine pairings for your next dinner party or event, be sure to explore sweet wines, but not necessarily dessert wines. Dessert wines can be overpowering, especially with a savory dish. Sweet wines like Adesso Cagnina di Romagna – 750ml and even semi-sweet wines can often bring the perfect blend of sweet and savory together, balancing one another out as you appreciate the beauty of a well-paired meal.

Which of the Wines Is the Sweetest?

If you’re looking for the sweetest of wines to end your day, consider exploring dessert wine options. These wines tend to have the most residual sugar after fermentation and are often sweet enough to be enjoyed on their own without a pairing. This makes them an excellent way to finish off your meal, providing you with the sweet flavors you might be craving without adding an extra plate to clean! Some of the most popular dessert wines include:

If finding the sweetest wine is important to you, consider ice wine. Also written as icewine or eiswein, this wine is made from grapes that are frozen while still on the vine. The result is an immensely rich drink with notes of honey, citrus and stone fruits. For ice wine, grapes usually cannot be harvested until December or January, and because the process is highly specialized, it can be challenging to find a good supply.

Give in to Your Sweet Tooth With Marketview Wine’s Sweet Selection

Now that you’ve got some ideas under your belt, why not explore some new options? We have a great wine lineup of sweet wines from Rosé, to sweet reds, to sweet whites – all great options for your next party, summer barbeque or other event!

If you are looking to stock up, we offer free shipping when you buy twelve or more bottles of select wines, and 10% off on select mix and match cases, ideal for trying out a few different sweet wines at one time!The final touch at every wedding is an elegant champagne toast. However, getting to that point is more complicated than you think. Wine and champagne decisions alone include considering what types to select, when to serve them, plus how many bottles to order without breaking the bank.

De-stress picking and ordering the best wines and champagnes for your wedding day with the insights and calculations below. Our guide to champagne and wine for a wedding explores all the necessary details to nail down this planning task so you can move onto other decisions. You know, like enjoying one of the happiest days of your life.

To find good wines for weddings, look for lower alcohol content and a mild flavor that will pair nicely with your reception meal. Give your guests options by choosing at least one red and one white wine. Two foolproof options that can be served year-round are Pinot Noir and Sauvignon Blanc. Both wines are lighter in body with a subtle fruitiness that goes well with a variety of foods.

Sauvignon Blanc and Pinot Noir are excellent wedding wines, but there are other great options like Pinot Grigio and Cabernet Sauvignon. The best choice will depend on your taste and wedding menu. We’ll cover more wine options and food pairings below.

Questions to Ask When Planning Your Wedding Alcohol Menu

Before calculating the exact amount and types of wine and champagne to order, consider these larger menu questions.
• Serving other drinks options: Wedding wine and champagne may not be your only beverage options at your reception. Many couples also choose to serve beer alongside mixed drinks at an open or cash bar, giving guests plenty of options. Some go all-out and provide beer kegs, which are especially popular at outdoor summer weddings. As the best wedding rule of thumb, always determine your full drink or bar menu before going down the wine-ordering rabbit hole. Plan to order generously if wine is the only beverage on the menu, as your guests will drink it all night.
• Assess your guest list: Your guest list plays an important role in the type of beverages served and the amount of wine and champagne needed. As friends and family, you know these people best. Do most of them drink? Do many of them not drink at all? Do your guests prefer beer or other drinks to wine and champagne? Will they stay and party long into the night, or will many of your guests leave early? Use these factors to help calculate wedding reception wine and champagne quantities.
• Remember not to sweat leftovers: This is especially true if you order your own bulk beverages rather than go through the venue or caterer. Stock your own mini-bar at home with bottles or cases of leftover wine if it turns out you were generous with your calculations. You can give bottles out as gifts for upcoming occasions. No harm, no foul.
• Set a budget: Alcohol represents only a fraction of your overall wedding budget. Determine early on your comfortable spending limits on wine and champagne. From there, you can explore specific red and white varietals or brands. A general guideline is to allot about 15% of your overall reception budget to the wine and champagne. Try not to worry if that gives you sticker shock. Most varieties of wine come at varying price points, starting under $10 per bottle and going up from there. This means you can serve your guest a delicious wine even on a budget.

Calculating Wine and Champagne for a Wedding: The Basics

Always round up when determining how much of these signature celebratory beverages to order.

Erring on the side of caution brings peace of mind on your big day, keeping guests happy and reducing wedding-day stress. After all, your college pals will never let you live it down if the wine, champagne and other beverages dry up too early.

Luckily, there is a formula for how much champagne and wine to order for your wedding. To prepare for those ordering calculations, first review these factors:
• When you plan to serve wine: Are you going to serve wine for the entire reception or only during dinner? If you’re popping corks all night, you’ll need a lot more wine. The same question applies to champagne. Will you only serve one glass per guest for an official couple’s toast, or will you offer it all night at the bar?
• Wedding reception timing: The time of your reception affects how much alcohol people drink. Guests drink less at a daytime wedding as well as Sunday and weekday nuptials. The more traditional evening or weekend wedding means you’ll likely need to increase your wine count, accommodating for friends and family letting loose.
• Wedding reception location: Location is also a factor. If your reception is held at a hotel where guests are staying, they’ll consume more wine than if they had to drive somewhere afterward. Likewise, wedding receptions held at wineries tend to bring out the wine connoisseur in your guests, making them drink more than they might at another venue.
• Other drink options: Will you serve other alcoholic beverages? Will those beverages be free, or do you plan to have a cash bar? If wine is the only free option and you’re serving it all night, guests may opt for that instead of the paid options at the cash bar.
• Who is serving: Self-serving open bars are options for backyard weddings and similar set-ups. If guests are pouring their own wine, increase your order amount. People are a little more generous than bartenders and servers when it comes to pouring their own drinks. If you have a catering staff member or bartender pouring the wine, specify that you want smaller serving sizes. Some inexperienced servers may fill the glasses more than you want, making the wine disappear faster. The containers also influence the size of pours. Large glasses beg for larger servings of wine. Opt for smaller glasses to keep the pour amounts under control.
• Guest preferences: Are your guests wine drinkers, or do the prefer beer? Do you have lots of non-drinkers on your guest list? Knowing what your guest like to drink helps you determine how much of each type of drink you’ll need.
• Guest ages: What is the average age of your guest list? If a third of the guests are underage, you won’t need nearly as much wine as you would for a majority-adults wedding reception.

How Many Bottles of Wine for a Wedding Reception?

A standard wine bottle holds 25 ounces. From that single bottle, you can expect to get roughly four to five servings of wine — or four to five glasses — depending on who is pouring and how much wine goes into each glass. Again, err on the side of caution and round down to four servings per bottle, just to account for those heavy pours.

Wedding planners suggest assuming each adult will drink approximately one glass of wine every hour. Wedding receptions, on average, last between three to five hours. Together, we can use these estimates to form the calculation for how many bottles of wine to order for your wedding:
• Wine bottle calculation formula: [Number of legal-drinking age guests] x 5-hour reception / 4 servings per bottle = total number of bottles to order

For an easier calculation — or if you just hate math — default to this guideline — order one bottle of wine per guest above the legal drinking age. For example, 200 drinking-age guests mean 200 total bottles of wine for your big day. Then add 10 to 25 extra bottles atop this one-to-one rule to give yourself a buffer, allowing wiggle room for generous serving sizes.

Sensibly adjust your numbers based on the other factors you considered. For example, if you’re also serving beer and having an open bar, you might not need as much wine. You can also decrease your numbers if a portion of your guest list doesn’t drink. If wine is your only beverage or you have many wine-loving friends, you may want to order even more of your selected varieties.

How Many Bottles of Each Wine Type Should I Buy?

Now that you have a general idea of the number of bottles required, you need to determine how many bottles of each type of wine to buy.

Most people offer at least one white wine and one red wine at their reception. Guests can select the type they most favor and even switch up their selections as the event goes on.
• Order a 50/50 split between your selected red and white varietals: Skew orders toward one type only if you know for sure your guests have a heavy preference.

Remember that wines varietals are often served to match the season. White wines and rosé are more popular in the summer. If you’re having an outdoor or summer wedding, consider ordering slightly more refreshing white wines. Conversely, heavier reds work better in the cooler temperatures of fall and winter. Bump up the amount of red wine you order if your nuptials fall in these seasons.

How Much Champagne for a Wedding Reception?

Champagne is a type of sparkling wine traditionally used for the official couple’s toast at a wedding. For that reason, calculating how much champagne to order comes down to how many guests are at your wedding, as each guest will receive their celebratory pour.

The average bottle of champagne contains about six servings for toasting pours. Therefore, the equation for determining how many bottles of champagne to order for your wedding is:
• Champagne bottle calculation formula: [Number of legal-drinking age guests] / 6 servings per bottle = total number of bottles to order

For 100 people, that’s roughly 17 bottles of champagne. Consider rounding up your figure in case waitstaff pour larger servings. This estimate gives each guest a small serving of the sparkler for the toast — you don’t want guests at the last-served tables to toast empty-handed!

If you plan to serve the champagne or sparkling wine throughout the night, you’ll need more. Use the same methods as you used for the other wine varieties to estimate how much to buy. On the other hand, if you don’t like champagne, consider a bubbly wine option — or skip this formal toast altogether.

Determining Which Wine and Champagne to Pick for Your Wedding

Wine comes in all varieties, from dry to sweet, red to white. If you’re not a wine drinker, you may not know where to start when it comes to choosing the best wines for weddings.

Wine is categorized by many characteristics, including the five below. Learn about these five defining traits and how they affect the wine-drinking experience to narrow down the options for your wedding menu.
• Sweetness: Wines vary in sweetness, from a very dry wine with almost no residual sugar to very sweet, tongue-tingling drinks. Balancing the sweetness level is often a good idea for wedding wines. An overly sweet wine doesn’t usually pair well with foods, and many people don’t like the sugary flavor.
• Body: A wine’s body will be described as light, medium or full. Lighter wines tend to feel more refreshing, while full-body wines have a stronger, more assertive taste that holds up well to many foods.
• Acidity: High acidity in wine is often described as a tart, zesty feeling with a slight tingling and mouth-drying sensation. Lower acidity produces a richer, rounder wine with a smoother aftertaste.
• Fruits: The fruit flavors you taste in a wine are some of its most interesting and unique. Some wines have a lush fruity palate with distinct flavors you can pick out as you sip. Others tend to be less fruity, containing earthy or floral notes.
• Tannins: Tannins are a compound in wine that produces a bitter, sharp reaction when tasting. While not related to dryness or acidity, a wine high in tannins tends to make your mouth feel dry. Some people do not like high tannin levels, but tannin can add complexity and balance to a varietal.

White wines tend to offer a lighter, refreshing and more approachable drink choice. White wine types span from dry to sweet, with many options in between. Once you narrow down a specific variety of white wine, do some tasting of different brands, as the sweetness levels and even some of the aromas vary from one brand to the next.

Today, some of the popular white wines for weddings include:
• Sauvignon Blanc: Sauvignon blanc is light and crisp, offering a refreshing but earthy set of flavors. This adaptive wine pairs well with a variety of foods, including cheese, chicken, oysters, seafood, and vegetables. It’s also appropriate all year long.
• Pinot Gris/Pinot Grigio: Pinot grigio offers a firm, nuanced white wine with pear, lemon, melon and sweet-spicy notes. This light white wine goes well with chicken, shellfish, rich fish and pasta. Italian versions, known as Pinot Grigio, tend to have a steely flavor with good acidity, while the French Pinot Gris provides more flavor complexity with a richer aftertaste.
• Chardonnay: Chardonnay is considered a rich white wine, typically with a creamy texture and intense fruit flavor. If you go with a chardonnay, stick to an unoaked or lightly oaked variety, which has a stronger fruit flavor and brighter acidity. It pairs well with many different types of foods, including vegetables, white fish, shellfish, chicken, pork and veal. It’s also enjoyable on its own.
• Riesling: Another versatile white wine type, riesling offers a crisp, aromatic quality, often with a slight mineral touch. Riesling ranges from very dry to incredibly sweet, so taste different brands to get the type you want. Riesling works well with almost any food, including shellfish, pork, vegetables and international foods.

Red wine is a classic, sophisticated option popular at weddings as well. As with white wine, you’ll find a wide range of flavors, bodies and sweetness levels within each variety, so it’s always a good idea to taste before you buy.

When it comes to red wine for a wedding, try one of these options:
• Cabernet Sauvignon: Cabernet sauvignon typically highlights flavors of dark fruit, particularly plums, blackberries and black currants. This red wine pairs well with hearty dishes and is the top pick in America for red wines. The full body of cabernet sauvignon works with beef, duck, richly spiced sauces, marinades and other red meat.
• Pinot Noir: Pinot noir is known as a silky wine, counting berries, cherries, plums, violets and warming spices in its roster of flavors. This varietal has a lighter body than many other red wines and low tannin levels, making it suitable for sipping alone. That light body also lets the wine pair well with a variety of food options, including finger fare during cocktail hour. Try pinot noir with roast chicken, duck, lamb, hearty fish and pork.
• Shiraz/Syrah: Both names represent the same wine — an earthy, fruity red known for its dark fruit and herb notes with earthy accents, such as leather, tobacco and black pepper. Shiraz is considered a big red wine, making it suitable for red meats, pork, lamb, grilled meats and game.
• Zinfandel: Zinfandel is almost exclusively an American wine, with few other locations growing the grapes. It is a bold, zesty red wine with intense flavors, including dark berries, plums, cherries, chocolate and black pepper. Zinfandel also has a high alcohol content, so consider that fact before serving it at your wedding. Zinfandel pairs nicely with spicy foods, grilled meats, red meat and barbecue.
• Grenache: This red wine appears light in color but offers a medium-to-full flavor profile, pulling in stewed berries plus white pepper. Grenache is available on its own or in wine blends. It works well with red meat, lamb, chicken and vegetables.
• Sangiovese: Sangiovese offers a fresh cherry flavor with herbal accents and is often high in acidity and tannins. Newer versions often have lower acidity levels. Sangiovese pairs with chicken, red meat, mushrooms and food with tomato sauces.

For wedding receptions, opt for a dry rosé offering the best of both worlds. Rosés carry the bright, refreshing flavors typically associated with white wine. Yet it also has enough body to stand up to meals and even wedding cake, just like red wine. Plus, this variety of wine is quickly gaining ground to become a premier choice for wedding celebrations, since it falls body and flavor-wise between white and red wine.

Dry rosé tends to have a crisp, fruity flavor without being as sweet as white zinfandel or similar American blush wines. It is a versatile wine option that works in any season and for any time of the day. Rosé is suitable to pair with almost any food options, including chicken, red meat, salads, seafood, grains and vegetables.

Champagne and sparkling wine are often associated with celebrations, which makes them perfect for weddings. Their subtle flavors and expressive bubbles make sparkling wines a delicious and suitable drink on their own. Dry sparkling wines in particular work well with foods if you want to offer a bubbly option on your beverage menu.

Optimal levels of champagne sweetness depend on personal preference, as well as when you will serve the sparkler. If you plan to serve it during dessert, opt for a sweeter sparkler. A demi-sec is usually a good choice. Dry sparklers tend to taste metallic or bitter when served with sweet foods like your wedding cake.

Consider these bubbly beverage options to find the best champagne for wedding activities:
• Blanc de Noir: Blanc de noir is a sparkler made primarily of pinot noir grapes. Some types also use Pinot Meunier. It is generally full of red fruit flavors and has a heavier body than other sparkling wines, with a color ranging from gold to pink.
• Blanc de Blanc: This type of bubbly is 100% chardonnay derived, with flavors to match if it comes from the Champagne region of France. Other white grapes can be used if the wine is made elsewhere. This variety tends to have a light, delicate flavor.
• Metodo Classico: Metodo Classico is a style of making sparkling wine very similar to traditional champagne. These wines tend to have creamy bubbles with a rich body.
• Prosecco: This Italian sparkling wine offers a fruity, aromatic flavor, often with flowery, peachy notes. Prosecco like La Marca Prosecco – 187ml is a bit on the dry side, although it tends to be sweeter than other varieties. Unlike some wines that improve with age, prosecco is better when young.
• Cava: Cava is the Spanish version of sparkling wine. It is produced in the same way as champagne, making it an affordable alternative to its French cousin. Cava tends to have a balanced fruity flavor but is not as sweet as prosecco.
• Sparkling Rosé: Sparkling rosés, also known as Rosato or Rosado, work well with food, as they tend to have a fuller body. These sparkling wines are sometimes made with a combination of still red wine and sparkling white wine. Sparkling rosés range in both color and flavor, from a light to a dark pink and from dry to sweet. Test different varieties before settling on one to get the flavor you want.

Note the only sparkling wine to officially receive the label of champagne must be made in the Champagne region in France. Other names include the more generic sparkling wine, cava, prosecco, Asti and Cremant, each designating where the beverage was produced.

Yet more important than the name or where it originates is the flavor a bottle offers. Sparkling wines come in varying sweetness levels, identified by special names. Explore these different levels to find champagne or sparkling wine that fits your preferences:
• Extra-brut: Driest type of sparkling wine or champagne available; no added sugar
• Brut: Brut wine like Wycliff Brut Champagne – 750ml is very dry with almost no sweetness; up to 1.5% sugar
• Extra dry: Also known as extra sec; a hint of sweetness without being overwhelming; up to 2% sugar
• Dry: Also known as sec; a little sweeter on the palette; up to 4% sugar
• Demi-sec: Sweet option; often considered a dessert wine; up to 8% sugar
• Doux: The sweetest option; up to 10% sugar

Best Food and Wine Pairings for a Wedding

When choosing your wine, consider your food menu for the reception. The best wedding wines complement the main entrée, bringing out even more primary and secondary flavors.

Use these time-tested wine and food pairing guidelines when crafting the final menu for your wedding:
• Chicken: Both red and white wine work with chicken so long as they’re light-to-medium bodied. Anything too heavy overpowers the softer flavors inherent to chicken. If you want a red wine, try pinot noir, Grenache or Sangiovese.
• Beef: Because beef maintains richer flavors and more marbling, pair it with a stronger wine. Medium-to-bold reds are the winners here, with higher tannins and bodies. Think cabernet sauvignon, merlot, shiraz, zinfandel or red Bordeaux.
• Fish: A light, dry white wine is a match made in heaven for flaky fish. Varieties to consider include sauvignon blanc and pinot grigio. If you want a red option, though, try a rosé, pinot noir or Gamay. Sparkling wines, such as prosecco or cava, also work well with fish.
• Vegetables: Green vegetables work well with light, dry white wines, such as sauvignon blanc and pinot grigio, as well as sparkling wines. Roasted vegetables also pair well with light white wines, but you can also successfully pair them with rich white varietals, such as an unoaked chardonnay. Even a pinot noir, Grenache or similar light red wines work with roasted veggies.

Don’t let food and wine pairings stress you. Consult with your caterer for wine suggestions to go along with your specific menu. Most people will drink the type of wine they prefer anyway, whether it’s a sommelier-approved suggestion or not.

Providing Enough Drink Variety at Your Wedding Without Overbuying

For your own sanity and budget, don’t try to serve every guest’s favorite wine type on top of diverse champagne. Craft your menu from your favorites — after all, this day is all about you. Then look to:
• Start with the basics: If your budget allows it, expand your bar menu first by adding two types of whites and two types of red like Adesso Cagnina Di Romagna – 750ml and Copper Ridge Merlot – 750ml. Most people prefer red or white wine, anyway, and will enjoy the bonus option. While traditionally, people associate white wine with spring and summer and red wine with fall and winter, a more modern approach is to offer both regardless of the time of year.
• Consider rosé: Rosés can be a compromise if you only want to serve one type of wine. A dry rosé gives the refreshing feel of white wine with the substance of red wine to stand up to the food you serve. Likewise, you could offer one red wine, one white wine and one rosé varietal just to cover your bases.
• Balance sweet and dry: Serving more than one red or white varietal? Ensure one type is dry while the other runs sweet. This flavor contrast is one of the major factors people consider when determining their wine preferences. Some wine drinkers only like dry wines, while others prefer varieties on the sweeter side. Offering one dry and one sweet white wine, as well as one dry and one sweet red wine, caters to a wider group of your guests. You don’t have to choose the driest white wine and the sweetest white wine available. Simply choose something from the dry end of the scale and something from the sweet end.

Buying Your Own Wine and Champagne Versus Order Through a Caterer

You have two main options when deciding where to buy wine and champagne for wedding events — ordering through your venue or caterer or buying your own wine cases.

Buying your own beverages gives you control over exact brands and varietals. You can also usually find better prices from outside vendors and retailers. Ordering wine and champagne through your caterer may cost you about double the retail price for that specific bottle. Sorry, bank account.

However, not all venues or caterers allow you to purchase and serve your own alcohol. Always check with both the venue and the caterer before researching and buying your own wine. No matter how much you love a glass of vino, you don’t want to waste your wedding funds on cases of wine you can’t use on your big day.

1. Pros of Ordering Alcohol Through Your Caterer

Opting for a venue’s or caterer’s alcohol menu includes perks like:
• You don’t have to research and compare pricing from multiple vendors. This saves you time and lets you focus on other wedding priorities not outsourceable.
• The caterer handles ordering and getting the wine to the venue. No hauling heavy cases of wine to your wedding reception location.
• You avoid a corkage fee. Sometimes caterers charge a corkage fee to open and pour your own wine and champagne. That corkage fee can be over $15 per bottle.

2. Pros of Supplying Your Own Wedding Alcohol

Now, let’s explore the pros of buying your own wine and champagne:
• You aren’t limited to the options provided by the caterer. While caterers often maintain dynamic wine selections, they can offer limited champagne and sparkling wine catalogs. A retailer will have a much wider selection without requiring expensive special orders.
• Wine and champagne are much cheaper, since caterers mark up their prices. If your caterer charges a corkage fee, compare the cost of their wine to the cost of your wine plus the fee. You may still come out ahead if you find a good third-party deal. In general, the more expensive the wine, the more you save by purchasing it yourself and paying the corkage fee. Wine under $15 per bottle may be cheaper when ordered through your caterer. Try to negotiate a lower corkage fee to make your savings even greater.
• You can buy in bulk: Buying in bulk often means you get a discount on wine, making it even more affordable. Many retailers offer discounts of around 10% when you order a case or more of wine at once. Buying wine yourself is already cheaper, but this discount shaves even more money off the cost, giving you more room in your budget.

Extra Tips for Choosing Wine and Champagne for Your Reception

Use your wine and champagne menu to add that special touch to your wedding day. Consider customizing the presentation of bottles at the bar in a unique way. Print signs to place on the tables or at the bar sharing why you chose this particular varietal.

Get creative! There are so many ways you can use wine and champagne to add another layer of detail to your special day.
• Wine with personal meaning: Choose a wine with significant meaning to you as a couple. Think of what you drank on your first date, first anniversary or the day you got engaged. If you can’t find or afford that specific brand in bulk, you can still use the same wine varietal, such as cabernet sauvignon, pinot grigio or malbec, for a walk down memory lane.
• Family heritage inspiration: If you don’t have any specific wine preferences, choose varieties from countries that represent your heritage. Many countries now produce distinct wines, giving you a world of possibilities.
• Local wine: Wine is produced in nearly every region in the U.S. Consider choosing bottles from a favorite local winery or from a region you vacation frequently, solo or together. If you have multiple favorite vacation spots, choose a few different varieties from those spots and display them alongside vacation photos.
• Personalized labels: No matter where wine or champagne comes from, an easy way to add a personal touch is to decorate them with custom labels. Include your names, the wedding date, the wedding location and anything else you want to commemorate.

Tips for Buying the Right Amount of Alcohol for Your Wedding

With wine and champagne selected, it’s time to purchase the wine. If you decide to buy through your caterer, the company will handle all further logistics. When buying your own wine, you need to handle vendor research, purchasing and transportation to your final venue.

Follow these general best practices when it comes to ordering the ideal amount of wedding alcohol:
• Order early: Comparing prices and finding the specific brands you enjoy takes time. Start early to find the best pricing. Plus, orders may require a few extra days or even weeks if sourcing bottles from a particular region. Check with the retailer to determine how soon you need to order.
• Sample before ordering: The same varietal can taste dramatically different depending on where it comes from, grape growing conditions and aging techniques. For example, you may love a malbec from one winery or country but dislike its flavor from another. Always try before you buy your dozen-or-so cases.
• Go with bigger bottles: If you’re paying a per-bottle corkage fee, buying larger bottles of wine decreases your total fee. Those larger bottles may also be more inexpensive per ounce. Compare pricing if larger bottles are available in the variety of wine you want to serve.
• Buy all at once: Placing one large order for all the wine and champagne for your wedding can save you a serious chunk of change. That’s because most wine retailers offer bulk discounts. The larger your order, the larger your savings.

If you’re ready to buy your own wine for your upcoming wedding, check out Marketview Liquor. We offer case discounts, including on mix-and-match varietals, plus free shipping on twelve or more bottles of wedding wine and champagne marked “Eligible for Free Shipping.”

Our wide selection of sparkling wine and champagne gives you the variety you want at a price you need — no compromises.

At Marketview Liquor, we can also help you plan the wine and liquor for your wedding reception. Give us a call at 888-427-2480 or email us at [email protected] to start planning the wine and champagne for your wedding!Violet scents add freshness to this wine’s lovely richness of fruit, the flavors of floral strawberry compote showing the ripeness of the vintage in their saturation. Cool and juicy, this is ready to enjoy with grilled chicken sausages.

 88 Points Wine&SpiritsMoscato has become something of a cultural phenomenon in recent days. Over the past few years, demand for Moscato has been on the rise, with consumers looking for a sweeter, lighter bodied wine with a low alcohol content. With its relatively low price point, delicate notes both fruity and floral and undeniable sweetness, this wine is perfect for new wine enthusiasts, yet can be nuanced enough for a seasoned taster to appreciate.

It seems Moscato wine is more than just a passing trend, so if you’re wondering about Moscato wine, we’ve put together a comprehensive guide.

Moscato (pronounced mo-ska-toh) is a sweet Italian wine known for its fruity notes. Made from the Muscat grape, this white wine is typically thought of as a dessert wine with a hint of fizz. Though there’s some variation between the different types, Moscato generally has a pretty low alcohol content, hovering around 5-7%. As a point of reference, most red wines have an alcohol content of about 10-12% ABV. The low alcohol content makes Moscato a great dessert drink for casual sipping, or the perfect addition to a brunch-time spritzer that won’t derail your entire day.

What is Moscato wine made of? Despite variations in fizziness, color, and dryness, all Moscato wines come from the Muscat grape have a relatively similar flavor profile.

Here’s a look at the different types of Moscato:

Pink Moscato — Pink Moscato a delightful variation on the wine, featuring white Moscato wine made from the Muscat Blanc grape, plus a dash of Merlot for good measure. Due to its more varied composition, Pink Moscato features an exciting lineup of flavorful nuances — rich caramel and vanilla notes play nicely with the fruitier flavors more closely associated with the common Moscato d’Asti variety — nectarine, peach and citrus.

Asti Spumante — The fully sparkling version of Moscato, Asti Spumante (or simply Asti) is the Muscat Blanc grape’s answer to champagne.

Moscato d’Asti — This is the most common type of Moscato wine. It’s white, sweet and slightly sparkling (what’s known as “frizzante”), and made from the Muscat Blanc grape. Moscato d’Asti is generally what you’ll get if you ask for Moscato at most establishments.

Red Moscato — Made with black and orange Muscat grapes, Red Moscato is the best of both worlds as far as red versus white wine is concerned. While it still has that signature Moscato taste and smell, red Moscato features a range of fruity notes from wild cherry to berry and peach.

Still Moscato — Also known as Moscatel or Muscat Blanc. This Moscato comes without the wine’s signature sparkle, and uses either the Zibibbo or the Muscat Blanc grape. You won’t find this still white wine in every supermarket, but if you do, it’s a bit different, so die hard Moscato fans might not love this as much as their usual bottle. Some it’s interesting to try Moscatos which are completely dry, featuring ABVs that more closely resemble other wines. The alcohol content hovers at around 12%.

Dessert Moscato — Though all Moscatos are quite sweet and have a reputation as a great dessert wine, this oak-aged style is commonly associated with wine made from Moscatel grapes, hailing from various regions in the world — France, the US, South America and more.

Though it hails from Italy, Moscato grows just about anywhere in the world. From its European origins, Moscato can be grown in almost any climate, though the plant prefers the accommodating warmth of the Mediterranean climate, thriving in France, Spain, Italy, Portugal and certain regions of Australia.

Moscato is one of the oldest varieties of wine, making an appearance throughout history in several different cultures spanning thousands of years. The long history of the grapes throughout has resulted in a variety of mutations and crossings — creating at least 200 variations of the Muscat grape.

Here are the more common varieties of the Muscat grape:
• Moscatel, also known as Zibibbo or Muscat of Alexandria
• Moscato Giallo (a yellow version of the Muscat Blanc grape from Northern Italy)
• Black Muscat (also known as Muscat Hamburg)

Despite the well-travelled history of this grape, most Moscato you’ll see comes from a region in Italy, called Asti. Province, town and wine, this triple threat name is part of the Piedmont area in Northwestern Italy

Since the early 1990’s however, Asti Spumante was promoted to DOCG classification, which is the highest designation in Italian wines — quite an achievement. At that point, the wine officially dropped the word “spumante,” in an effort to elevate the wine by getting rid of the suffix. There are countless other wines that use the spumante suffix as well, but it generally refers to a specific wine’s sparkling version, in order to differentiate a wine that isn’t traditionally sparkling. In the region of Asti, the sparkling aspect is essential to its style, so wine experts deemed the qualification was redundant and somehow cheapened the wine itself.

While the name Asti on its own refers exclusively to the fully sparkling version of the white wine, Asti Spumante, as we mentioned Moscato d’Asti refers to the more slightly sparkling wine (frizzante) that we generally associate with the name Moscato.

Moscato d’Asti and Asti are easy to mix up, despite some subtle, yet important differences. With Asti, you’ll get a sweet white wine that is fully sparkling. Its alcohol content is usually around 9%. Moscato d’Asti on the other hand is a little bit sweeter than its sparkling counterpart. This popular white wine has a touch of sparkle — known as frizzante — and has a relatively low ABV of about 5 or 6%.

The main difference between these two types of wine lies in the power of the bubbles. As far as Italian wine experts are concerned, sparkles are a big deal. Asti, the spumante wine of the two, is subjected to a minimum of 4 atmospheres of pressure. On the other hand, the Moscato d’Asti is subjected to 1 atmosphere of pressure.

As a handy trick in case you don’t feel like reading the label too closely, wineries tend to top Asti off with a big wired down cork similar to champagne, because of the pressure, while Moscato d’Asti has a more traditional cork.

Moscato d’Asti is a sweet and delicate wine, and as a result, it takes the bulk of the Asti region’s ripe grapes. Because of this, the less ripe, more acidic leftover grapes are used in the sparkling Asti wine. The higher concentration of alcohol in combination with the higher fizziness doesn’t require the grapes to be as sweet.

To be sure, sweet and sparkly Moscato is great on its own, but its distinctive aroma can prove tricky when pairing with tasty bites. While Moscato surely won’t stand up against a big steak, it really shines when paired with a dessert menu.

As a general rule, Moscato wines work really well when paired with similar fruit flavors. Pair this wine with a peach or nectarine tart or warm berry pie for a fruit on fruit experience. It also works well with nuttier flavors. The wine’s tasting notes of nectarine and citrus really shine when paired up against the subtle flavors of a buttery almond pastry.

Another great option? Opt for a cheese plate. This wine and cheese combination is a classic that never fails to impress, but you will want to pick cheeses that are light and fresh, rather than aggressively sharp and smelly. Your best bet will be a gorgonzola or a crescenza. Top off with some fresh figs, grapes, nuts or whatever else sounds good and you’ve got the perfect party platter to serve alongside Moscato.

If you’re looking for something a little more unexpected than a dessert pairing, we’ve got you covered. Believe it or not, Moscato can be a great dinner pairing for certain types of food.

Chinese, Thai and Vietnamese cuisines all work really well with Moscatos. The high aromatic content of these regional cuisines balance out the natural sweetness in Moscato — plus, because the alcohol volume is so low, Moscato works in place of the lighter lagers that are usually served alongside spicier dishes. As an added bonus, the sweetness of Moscato is the perfect choice to balance out the spiciness of a dish such as ginger, cinnamon and hot chili peppers.

Like other white wines, Moscato works best at the dinner table when paired with lighter proteins like chicken or fish. While chicken is always a safe bet, you can also try pairing your wine with a rich barbecue pork or marinated tofu.

Being from the same grape means Moscatos all share a general flavor profile — sweet, fruity and a touch woodsy. However, the little differences between add up, shifting the pairing options ever so slightly. Here are a few tips:
• If you’re drinking a Pink Moscato, its hint of Merlot can handle a bit more heartiness. Bring it to the dinner table — try pairing this unique wine with chicken, ham or flaky, buttery seafood like crab or lobster. Though Moscatos typically rule the dessert menu, Pink Moscato is pretty versatile, and can even handle teaming up with a bit of steak.
• If you do opt for the traditional dessert route, keep it simple and pair a Pink Moscato with other vanilla-type flavors that echo the notes present in the wine — think shortcakes, caramels or a shortbread-type cookie.
• Red Moscato on the other hand, though still made with the Muscat grape, tends to stand up to bolder flavors than its lighter counterparts do. Try pairing with BBQ fare, soft cheeses or anything spicy.

Whether you play up the dessert factor or go for a brunch-ready Moscato mimosa, we’ve dug up a few delicious (not to mention, easy to make) Moscato cocktail recipes that offer a bit of a departure from your usual dessert sipper.

Moscato meets more sweetness in this easy-to-make drink. Before you dismiss this as sweetness overload, keep in mind pairing basics. The sweet white wine plays nicely with fresh raspberries and the subtle sweetness of the honey. Honey, wine and fresh fruit come together to create a perfectly refreshing drink that can easily take the place of dessert.
• Mix the honey with the hot water in a glass, stirring until the honey has fully dissolved in the liquid.
• Next, add the Moscato and the lemon. Stir until all ingredients are completely mixed.
• Top off with ice and garnish with a lemon slice and mint leaf for a little extra oomph.
• Drizzle honey over the top and serve.

A unique take on the sangria, this version brings the summertime staple right into the fall and winter months. Made with apple cider and a delicious lineup of seasonal fruits, this Red Moscato Sangria is the perfect drink to serve at a low-key weekend get together, or just a regular Tuesday night.
• First, pour the bottle of wine into a large pitcher
• Next, you’ll add the apple cider and all fruits
• Let the Sangria sit for at least an hour so the wine can absorb the fruit flavors.

The perfect drink for a special occasion, this fruity drink breathes new life into the classic all-you-can-drink brunch staple. Sweet Moscato wine pairs nicely with strawberries, the contrasting tartness of grapefruit and the little kick of tequila.
• 2 whole small strawberries (use as garnish)
• Add strawberries, sugar and grapefruit juice to a blender, combining until completely smooth.
• Next, strain the fruit mixture into a cocktail shaker, adding the tequila and ice.
• Shake it up until cold and thoroughly mixed.
• Then, strain the fruit and tequila mixture into a champagne flute or wine glass (so as to remove the ice), filling glasses half way.
• Top drinks off with the Pink Moscato and enjoy.

Sure, this simple Asti cocktail only has three ingredients, but sometimes less is more. This sparkling drink provides the perfect after-work relief on a hot evening.
• First, bruise the coriander or cilantro. Just a quick FYI: “bruising” the coriander means you’ll just slightly crush the herbs to release the flavor, rather than cutting it into small bits.
• Next you’ll combine the herbs with the chilled Asti, adding in the juiced lime. Stir well until combined.

Want to learn more about Moscato? Take a look at these FAQs and see if we can answer your questions!

Moscato is considered a sweet wine due to its lower acidity and high levels of residual sugar. The wine’s exact sweetness and flavor will depend on the winemaker’s style. To get Moscato’s signature sweetness, most winemakers stop the fermentation process earlier than with other blends, resulting in a crisp, sweet finish.

Moscato is part of the dessert wine family along with other popular sweet wines like Zinfandels and Tokajis.

Moscato is most certainly a variety of wine. However, some kinds of Moscato are sparkling, and it does share a few commonalities with Champagne, including:
• Generally white, but can have rosé and blush options

The main difference between Moscato and Champagne is their fermentation and carbonation processes. Champagne gets carbonated through a secondary fermentation process, while Moscato is fermented with carbon dioxide, leaving slight carbonation behind.

What Kind of Wine Is Moscato?

This light, sweet wine often pairs with desserts, so it’s no surprise that Moscato is a dessert wine. While there’s no universal way of defining “dessert wine,” wines in this category generally have sweeter, more pronounced flavors that pair well with fruit and confectionery. They also tend to have more residual sugar after the fermentation process, adding to their sweetness.

Due to its slight carbonation, there are not many other dessert wines that have a flavor profile like Moscato’s. If you’re hoping to add some variety to your collection, though, consider a Prosecco or a sparkling Riesling.

Moscato is a highly accessible wine, and as such, adding this wine to your everyday repertoire won’t break the bank. Most bottles are well below triple-digit prices, so you can indulge in enough to satisfy all your friends and family.

While some people may consider “cheap” wine to be of lesser quality, in this case, it simply means it’s easy to drink and easy to share. In recent years, Moscato has gained quite a following, and people from all backgrounds have found something to enjoy in this wine. If you like a light, sweet drink to finish off your meal and ease you into your evening, Moscato is an excellent choice.

Whether you’re out at a friendly picnic or hosting an important dinner party, you’re sure to please the crowd with a bottle — or a few! — of Moscato at your side.

As a dessert wine, Moscato is firmly in the sweet wine family. Other popular sweet wines include Zinfandels and Tokajis. The wine’s exact sweetness will depend on the winemaker’s style, but usually, sweet wines have more residual sugar than dry wines. To get Moscato’s signature sweetness, most winemakers stop the fermentation process earlier than with other blends, resulting in a crisp, sweet finish.

Looking for Moscato wine delivered directly to you? Look no further than Marketview Liquor. We’ve got it all from your basic (and delicious) Moscato d’Asti to the more colorful pinks and reds, as well as the sparkling, suffix-optional Asti.

Check out our extensive selection of wines to find the best Moscato wines at the best prices, plus free shipping on select bottles of twelve or more. Additionally, mix and match a variety of select bottles to be eligible for a 10% case discount!France, Italy, Spain, the U.S. and Argentina fill out the top five spots for worldwide wine production. Argentina produces 5.38% of the world’s wines, while France tops the list at 16.54%. We can’t deny wine’s popularity around the world. Yet, few stop to ask about how gets wine its name before pouring a glass.

Have you stopped to think about the history of the wine you enjoy? Have you ever wondered why ice wine is called ice wine? How about how sherry earned its name? Pour yourself a glass of your favorite varietal and discover how wines are named — plus more interesting information — below.

Before delving into the topic of wine names, understand two key points. Most wine names tie to the region where they’re crafted or the grapes used during their production. While there are exceptions to the rule, most wineries stick to these principles.

Wines from countries with a long history of producing wines and strict regulations earn the title “Old World”. France, Germany, Italy, Portugal and Spain serve as examples of countries producing Old World wines. Traditionally, the region dictates the different names of winesmade in these countries.

Countries with less of a history in winemaking produce “New World” wines. Wines falling in this category come from places like Australia, Chile, South Africa and the U.S., but different wine names typically come from the type of grape used.

Exceptions with wine names occur from time to time. Some winemakers skip traditions and create names specific to their winery. Others use creativity to come up with names for their blends. As an example, Michael David Winery in California turned to creativity to draw attention to its wines, with The 7 Deadly Zins Zinfandel. In its first decade after the name change, sales grew to 250,000 cases per year.

Just as there are hundreds of grape varieties, regions producing wines also create an extensive list. We’ve narrowed our list to some of the more popular regions and wine names.

Wine has been a part of Italy’s history for centuries. Vineyards sprawl the countrysides, creating the connections between these wines and the regions they come from:

France and wine seem to go hand in hand. With the country’s wine history spanning over 2,500 years, it’s no wonder we know these wines — and possibly their regions of origin — so well:

Don’t forget these European countries that create an array of delicious wines and have done so throughout history. Spanish and Portuguese wines and their regions include:

Wines named for regions can be confusing to buyers. Take Champagne as an example. Many people mistakenly believe that Champagne earns its name for the variety of small grapes. In fact, Black Corinth grapes, aka Champagne grapes, come from Greece and these grapes do not go into the famous bubbly wine, but are sold as dried currants. Champagne actually contains three varieties of grapes: Chardonnay, Meunier and Pinot Noir.

Wines named for regions can be confusing to buyers. Take Champagne as an example. Many people mistakenly believe Champagne earns its name for the variety of small grapes. In fact, black corinth grapes, aka Champagne grapes, come from Greece, and they do not go into the famous bubbly wine but are sold as dried currants. Champagne actually contains three varieties of grapes — chardonnay, meunier and pinot noir.

Seven items form the basis of any Old World wine label:

Old World wines rarely list the exact style of wine. It’s assumed the buyer understands the different types of wines coming out of each region. Understanding the regions can help customers shop for Old World wines.

New World wines are frequently named after the type of grape used within the wine. While thousands of grape varieties exist in the world today, Wine Spectator says approximately 1,300 grape varieties make their way into commercial wines. Of those, only 21 grape varieties regularly appear as types of wine names.

If you’re wondering how are wines named, these red wines described for their grapes offer a simple answer:
• Cabernet franc: A parent to cabernet sauvignon grapes, cabernet franc stands out as it ripens earlier. It’s used commonly in blends.
• Concord: Popular in jellies and grape juice, concord grapes also make impressive wines. Concord, Massachusetts, earns praise for being the birthplace of the grapes within the U.S. This grape variety ripens early and produces juice with a deep purple color.
• Cabernet sauvignon: Scientists proved through DNA analysis that cabernet sauvignon is a cross between cabernet franc and sauvignon blanc. It became the most popular grape variety in the world in 2010.
• Grenache: Spain’s garnacha grapes go into some of the world’s best wines. Their popularity stems from the flavors these grapes impart into the wines they create. It’s common for grenache to bring berries and spices to mind.
• Malbec: Malbec grapes originated in France. Traditionally used to create Bordeaux wines, the grape does produce an intriguing wine on its own. It’s not as common due to the vine’s proclivity to root rot.
• Merlot:Merlot grapes came from Bordeaux, France. Once used in blends, merlots gained a following as a varietal wine.
• Pinot noir: History ties pinot noir grapes to the Ancient Romans. It’s a harder grape to grow, as it is particular about the climate. The wines it produces, however, make the efforts worthwhile.
• Sangiovese: Cristina Mariani-May, owner of Castello Banfi, calls the sangiovese grape, “Tuscany’s signature red grape.” It’s a temperamental grape that produces exceptional red wines. Strict Italian rules also often restrict it from being part of a blend.
• Shiraz or syrah: Scientists tested the DNA of syrah grapes and found they’re a cross between dureza and an unknown variety of white grapes. Depending on the region, this grape’s also referred to as syrahor shiraz. It’s used in dry red wines.
• Tempranillo: Originating in Spain, tempranillo grapes predominately serve as a key ingredient in Spain’s red Rioja. The grapes ripen early and have their own holiday on Nov. 8.
• Zinfandel:Zinfandel grapes share very similar DNA to Italian primitivo grapes. More research found zinfandel grapes’ DNA matches Croatian crljenak kastelanski grapes. Despite the connection to primitivo, U.S. laws require zinfandel wines to be called zinfandels and never primitivo.

If you’re more of a white wine drinker, these possibly familiar varietals also take the name from their grape:
• Chardonnay: Chardonnay grapes reached California in the 1800s, but Prohibition led to the destruction of most plants. Some survived, and the grape grew popular in the 1970s. This grape crosses the gouais blanc and pinot noir.
• Gewürztraminer: Gewürztraminer grapes gained the name from the German word gewürz, meaning spicy. The grapes do have a distinctly spicy scent. Gewürztraminer grapes contain high sugar contents and produce high-alcohol wine.
• Moscato or muscat:Muscat grapes come in six varieties — Alexandria, blanc, diamond, gaillo, orange and summer. This versatility helps winemakers produce everything from sparkling wines to dessert wines.
• Niagara: Niagara grapes frequently make their way into white grape juice. They’re gaining popularity for winemaking due to their high yields. The grapes originated in Niagara County, New York, where a cross of cassady and concord grapes led to their creation.
• Pinot blanc: Pinot blanc grapes often carry more sweetness than acidity. As a result, wines made with this grape don’t improve with age. Still, it’s a solid choice for someone looking for an easy-to-drink wine.
• Pinot grigio: Similar to pinot gris grapes, pinot grigio grapes grow best in a cool climate. They result in a dry yet refreshing wine.
• Pinot gris: Pinot meaning “pine” pairs with gris meaning “grey” to form the name of these grapes. Pinot grisgrape clusters resemble pinecones. The skin on the grapes is a pinkish grey color.
• Riesling:Riesling grapes create both dry and sweet wines with floral honey notes. Germany grows the largest number of riesling grapes.
• Sauvignon blanc: Brought to California in the 1800s, sauvignon blanc grapes impart herbal citrus notes into wines. The climate and soil quality often impact the overall flavor.
• Seyval blanc: Developed in France, seyval blanc grapes have lower sugar content than many varieties. As a result, the wines don’t age well. Sparkling wines often contain seyval blanc grapes.

With New World wines, labels usually provide more straightforward information than those found on Old World bottles. Labels for New World wines include:

Labels for New World wines clearly state the type of wine found within the bottle. This makes it easier for novice wine drinkers to quickly find and identify their favorite varietals.

Bottles for wine blends typically state red, white or rosé. When a wine doesn’t contain at least 75% of one grape variety, the variety goes unlisted. This explains nondescript labels like “sweet red” or “table white.”

Some winemakers go for puns or spins on common names and phrases, while others tribute favorite celebrities. How about sipping a glass of Marilyn Merlot? Mommy’s Time Out is another wine that makes for a humorous gift for the busy mom.

Wine names can take a personal note for some. Musician Sting, lead singer of The Police, owns a vineyard in Il Palagio, Italy. He names his wines after songs like Message in a Bottle. For Francis Ford Coppola, the award-winning director, his Sofia wines are named after his daughter Sofia.

Some believe chardonnay grapes originally gained their name from an area in Jerusalem. In 2012, the co-founder of Gvaot Winery told a tour group that chardonnay grapes came from Israel. The belief is the name came from the Hebrew phrase “sha’har adonai,” which means “gate of God.” Over time, names for this variety of grapes have changed. Chaudenet, chardonnet and chardennet are just a few examples. There’s also a village in France called Chardonnay.

Merlot also has a fun story regarding its name. This grape variety dates back to 1784. A document dated with 1784 mentions a “merlau” grape, popularly believed to be based on the French term for a young blackbird, or “merle.” Some believe the grape got its name from the bird’s dark color, while others believe the birds took a liking to the grapes.

Ice wine, a sweeter dessert wine, did not get its name from a type of grape or specific region. Despite popular belief, ice wine does not originate in Iceland. The name is based on how the wine is created. It involves a process that occurs when vineyards hold off harvesting grapes until after freezing weather sets in, where workers harvest then the frozen grapes from the vine. These frozen grapes ferment into a very sweet dessert wine with pronounced fruit flavors.

The malbec grape has experienced several name and country changes over the years. It initially earned its place as one of the five key grapes of the Bordeaux region in France and was known as “pressac.” When Sir Malbec transported the grape vines to Medoc, they thrived.

To honor Malbek, the name of pressac grapes changed to malbec. The malbec grape’s popularity declined in France. However, Michel Pouget was responsible for bringing vines on a journey to Argentina. With Argentina’s dry, hot climate, the grapes flourished, developing fruity and spicy notes we associate with a traditional Argentinian Malbec Wine. Malbec grapes are still grown in France but offer a distinct flavor and are frequently used in blends.

Now that you understand the different names of wine, how do you pick your favorites? Don’t let shopping for a wine overwhelm you. Along with knowing how wines are named, you can also discover the differences between the various types. These categories span regions and grape varieties to create broader wine options. The types of wines created throughout the world fall into one of five main categories:
• Dessert: Dessert wine breaks down into five categories itself — dried grape, fortified, ice, late harvest and noble rot. The sugar content in grapes increases as the grapes age. As a result, you get incredibly sweet wines. As the category’s name implies, dessert wines pair best with the end of your meal, but you don’t have to eat a sugary sweet dessert. Many wines in this category complement fruits and cheeses well.
• Red: Red wines get their color from dark purple, red and black grapes. The skin, in particular, gives color to the wine. The winemaking process for reds involves soaking the grape skins in the wines, giving many varietals the characteristic color and tannin content, which creates a dry mouthfeel. A longer soaking time typically creates a drier wine, but you can find sweet reds.
• Rose: Rosé earns its pinkish tone from the grape skin. Workers remove the skin in a shorter amount of time to keep the red coloring to a minimum. That shorter soaking time also creates rosé wines that aren’t as dry, making a suitable wine for red and white wine drinkers alike.
• White: Green grapes or red grapes without the skin create a range of white wines. The lack of red pigmentation limits these wines to a yellow or golden color. And without grape skins, seeds or stems soaking in the wine, many varietals have a lighter body and lower tannin content. The results are refreshing white wines.
• Sparkling: Sparkling wine and Champagne gain their bubbles through a second fermentation stage. During this stage, yeast eats sugar found in the wine to create the carbonation. With their refreshing mouthfeel and flavors, sparkling wines are great to enjoy on their own or as a pairing with salty foods.

These five main categories branch into subcategories. Just as you’re familiar with the five main categories of wine, you’ll probably recognize the subsets you can find across reds, whites and everything between. The subcategories break down wines by sweetness level:
• Dry wines: These occur when fermentation removes all sugars from the grapes. These wines can also have a high tannin content, which contributes to the drying mouthfeel.
• Semi-sweet: These wines occur when fermentation removes most sugars from the grapes. The result is an accessible wine for novice drinkers who want to work their way to dry wines.
• Sweet wines: These occur when fermentation removes very little of the sugars from the grapes. Novice drinkers are likely familiar with sweeter wines.

From there, different wines have various notes. Some wines may have herbal or grassy notes, while others showcase a clear fruitiness with berry notes. Wines may also be earthy with flavors that contrast fruity notes. From time to time, you’ll find wines that don’t fit these categories. Fruit wines made without grapes, like plum, strawberry and rhubarb wines, are good examples.

How to Find and Pick Out Wine by Name

When you find a wine you enjoy, note the varietal. Look up the grapes used and pinpoint the region. With this information, you’ll be able to shop for Old World and New World wines with ease.

Looking for a popular varietal to try? Whether you’re a wine novice or are looking to branch out, consider what others are drinking. The Wine Market Council came up with a list of favorite wine varietals based on a survey of 1,072 wine drinkers. Participants came from all 50 states in the U.S. The top 10 most popular wines according to the survey are:

In that same poll, 58% of the respondents say they prefer fruity wines. Semi-sweet followed closely with 57%. Dry wines only appealed to 26%. In addition, the Wine Market Council asked participants to list the top reasons for deciding which wine to buy. The top five answers were:

Of course, feel free to enjoy your favorite wines for any reason. And when you’re running low, stock up with Marketview Liquor. At Marketview Liquor, we’re here to help you navigate all of your wine options. We feature wines from around the world as well as a huge selection of New York wines.

We make it easy for you to buy wine online at great prices and have it shipped directly to your door. Save money on wine while trying various options with select mix and match case discounts and free shipping on select bottles when buying six or more. Need suggestions for an upcoming dinner party or event? Just ask! Our employees will help you find your favorites whether you order for in-store pickup at our Rochester, New York, store or buy online for wine shipped to you.Winemakers can create compelling flavor profiles with blended wines, as they offer more control over flavor. It may surprise you to learn some of the most popular wine choices are blends. A blended red or white wine uses more than one varietal, or type of grape.

During the winemaking process, vintners may experiment with combinations of different barrels, vineyards or grapes as they create new blends. One varietal serves as the main anchor for the wine, and at least one other varietal tweaks the outcome. The resulting blended wine is more complex and interesting as it pulls in characteristics from multiple varietals.

Blended wines can provide out-of-this-world flavors, textures and aromas, especially if you know what to look for. They offer ample room for experimentation and creativity, producing stunning results. Below, we’ll discuss well-known types of red wine blends and types of white wine blends.

First, you’ll need to know what a wine blend is. A blended wine’s definition is quite simple. Vintners make blended wines from different types of grapes — the only qualification of a blended wine is that it contains more than one grape type, also known as varietals. Use that quality to distinguish between blended and non-blended wines. If it’s made from only one varietal, it’s non-blended.

Non-blended wines are most prevalent — the wine you buy is often composed of one grape type. Popular non-blended wines include dark, dry merlots as well as chardonnays. Grapes of the same varietal might come from different areas, but that does not make the resulting wine a blend. Note that unless a bottle indicates grapes are from only one vineyard, they may originate from many different locations.

National laws also allow winemakers to include up to a certain percentage of other varietals in their non-blended wines. So your single-varietal wine may include a small portion of another grape. Though non-blended wines are delicious and popular for good reason, their complexity is almost completely limited to one type of grape, while blends can be much more nuanced.

Various grapes add unique flavors to blended wines. By experimenting with multiple varietals, winemakers can construct new wines with intricate complexities and satisfying characteristics, catering to specific tastes. The concept behind a blended wine is both scientific and aesthetic. For instance, if a certain red wine has one attribute and another red wine has a complementary attribute, the two may work well together. The resulting blend would share characteristics of each red wine. Even still, it becomes a unique standalone product.

You’ll find there are several types of wine blends. The process is more involved than mixing two grapes together and hoping for the best. Instead, vintners take the time to conceptualize which wines will blend best with one another. They use meticulous experimentation to create compelling combinations.

Ideal wine blend types are more than the sum of their parts. Winemakers evaluate every little element about the grapes they include, as well as storage and fermenting options. They take note of flavor components like earthiness, fruitiness and spice to make the best mixtures. They also have to decide when to start experimenting — right after fermentation, several months after the harvest or a few years after harvest. All of these decisions will affect the resulting flavor profile.

Most blended wines have a distinguishable base wine with other varietals creating flavor distinctions. Winemakers have to remember and preserve the original wine’s integrity. For instance, a winemaker crafting a cabernet blend can play with flavors and stylization until the wine no longer resembles a cabernet. When that happens, they’ll have to retract some changes and increase the base wine’s percentage in the mixture.

In this battle of precision, a winemaker might change only one or two percent of the wine blend at a time, testing and tasting all along the way. These tiny variations can have a marked impact on flavor and effect.

The vintner may experiment with dozens of blends using multiple varietals, each a slight change from the last, until they find the one that works best. Once they arrive at a desirable combination, they’ll mix the barrels together into a blending tank. They then might age the wines further before bottling.

Winemakers find the right blended wine combinations using only a few drops. Once they decide on a blend, they have to create it in larger quantities, making a blending tank useful. A blending tank is a more technical piece of equipment than you might assume. Some blending tanks release bursts of compressed air, carbon dioxide or nitrogen up through the tank’s bottom, creating the wine blend quicker. Using the blending tank, the vintner can also mix in chosen additives to complete the finished product. Some common additives include:
• Sulfur: Increasing sulfur content helps kill undesired bacteria and yeast during the winemaking process.
• Yeast: Different varieties of yeast alter the fermentation and affect the resulting wine flavor.
• Vitamins: Vitamins help maintain the desired yeast content during the fermentation process.
• Tannins: Tannin content also affects a wine’s flavor and overall impact. Tannins are what can make your mouth feel dry after taking a sip of wine.
• Sugar: You might think added sugar makes the wine sweeter — that’s not the case. Yeast consumes sugar during fermentation, so added sugar increases the final alcohol content. The process of adding sugar is termed “chaptalization.”

These are just a few additive examples vintners use to perfect their wines. After the wine blending is complete, the winemaker has to analyze samples. They’ll check for alcohol content, pH, acid concentration, sugar levels and other factors. They’ll then store the wine and often test it again, potentially allowing it to age further, as well. At the end of this process, they’ll designate, name and sell their blended wine.

At this point, you might be wondering if any grapes can contribute to a blended wine. You may have a favorite varietal and hope to try blends based around it. But certain grapes would make for an undesirable combination. Some varietals overpower the flavor unless used in minuscule amounts. As you explore blended wine varieties, you’ll find some grapes are almost never part of blends and for several reasons.

Not all grapes make for effective blended wines. If you love a rich, dry bottle of pinot noir, for instance, and are looking for a blend that uses this varietal, you’ll soon realize this is uncommon. Because the pinot noir grape takes a gentle touch and specific climate to thrive, most vintners who invest in blending shy away from the grape. Sensitive grapes like these are not often included in blends.

What a wine blend is called often has little to do with its properties. Blended wine names are quirky and creative, but they may not tell you much about the wine itself. A little research then comes into play. If you’re looking for a blend you’ll enjoy, you might choose an option from a wine region you prefer, such as the Napa Valley of California or Eastern France’s Burgundy region.

Once you’ve chosen a region, you can start investigating the flavors promised in its blended wines. You’ll likely discover some white and red blends that match your desired wine taste.

You can find both red and white wine blends, though reds are more prevalent. So, what is blended red wine? In simple terms, a red blend wine is made from more than one red grape. This definition leaves room for a lot of different red wine blends. Vintners design their new red wines using meticulous grape combinations in exact proportions, as detailed above. Now that you know what a blended red wine is, you’ll need to know how to identify one when you see it.

To recognize various red blends, you’ll need to know what a red blend wine is known as. Any wine with multiple red grapes fits this description, so names will vary. When facing an aisle of reds, it can be challenging to tell which are single varietals and which are blends. You’ll likely need to turn to the labels.

Sometimes, blended wines will have labels indicating which varietals they include, down to the percentages. Some bottles may read “red blend,” which means they feature multiple red grapes. The label may have shorthand denoting which varietals it includes. If a label reads “CMS Blend,” this wine includes cab, merlot and syrah varietals. If the label names no specific varietals, you may be able to use the region designated as a clue since certain grapes derive from certain regions.

A red blend wine description might include terms like full-bodied, rich and round, a flavor profile connoisseurs often expect from a red. The red wine blend names may not be familiar at first, but as you begin to explore the world of blended wines, you will start to notice them in stores and restaurants. Once you know what a red blend is and how to find one, you can start experimenting with different blends to find your favorites.

What Is a Red Blend Wine Made Of?

As mentioned above, red wine blends can include any red grapes. Some of the more popular and famous red grape examples include zinfandel, sauvignon, cabernet and merlot, each of which can contribute to a delicious blend. You’ll find no simple answer to the question “What is in a red blend wine?” as this category encompasses so many options.

As you might expect, a white blend wine is any wine with more than one white grape in its final product. A white blend wine description might include words like velvety, luscious, subtle or sweet, depending on its elements. Red blend wines may be more prevalent, but white blend wines are often delightful to enjoy.

White wine blend names, like those for red wines, depend on the included grapes. Some well-known white blends include white Bordeaux, white Rioja and some white château varieties. As you would with red wine blends, you’ll have to take a good look at the bottle’s label to discern whether the wine is a single varietal or a blend. You can then determine what varietals it includes. Look for blend shorthand designations or use the region of origin as a hint for which varietals it incorporates.

What Are Some Popular Red Wine Blends and White Wine Blends?

If you’re new to the world of blended wines, you might find yourself unsure where to start. To help your search, consider red and white blend recommendations, depending on your personal taste. Whether you favor your wine dry, sweet, full-bodied, light-bodied or something in between, plenty of delicious options are available.

Red wine blends are often sophisticated and romantic. Most red wine blends have a distinctive anchor wine, but their tastes vary with additional complementary wines. Regardless of your taste preferences, you can find red wine blends to satisfy your palate. Consider the recommendations below for dry, sweet, full-bodied and light-bodied red blend wines.

What Is a Red Wine Blend for Fans of Dry Wine?

Dry and semi-dry wines pair well with many dining options and earn a dignified place at the table. Great examples of semi-dry popular red wine blends are those that start with malbec. Malbec grape blend well with other varietals like merlot or cabernet sauvignon. The result is a wine in the Bordeaux style. Blends that begin with malbec as a base are often smooth-tasting, yet they retain plenty of the added varietals’ features.

Other dry red wine blends include red Bordeaux, featuring a merlot base and Super Tuscan. This blend also uses merlot and the Spanish Rioja. You might also prefer a glass of Chianti, popular among dry red blends.

From the Chianti region of Tuscany, these wines pair well with pasta, cheese and meat, making an excellent addition to an Italian-style dinner. Many think Chianti is a varietal wine, but it’s actually a red blend. It’s found on tables and in wine cellars across America, although many wine drinkers are unaware there’s more than one variety of grape in their glasses.

What Is a Red Wine Blend for Fans of Sweet Wine?

If you prefer a sweeter taste, you have plenty of options. You’ll find many types of sweet red blend wine, which can produce a lovely flavor experience by itself or alongside a meal. For instance, you might try a sweet red zinfandel. Zinfandel varietals are versatile — when picked early, zinfandel grapes make a crisp, white wine. For a red zinfandel, the grapes grow much riper and sweeter before harvesting, creating a fuller-bodied product. The entire grape, skins included, contribute to the fermentation process, producing a rich, red coloration.

You can also find sweet blends of merlot, catawba, enantio and other varietals. If you know you prefer wine from a certain region or with a particular varietal, explore blends with those elements. Browse sweet red blend options to find those that cater to your personal taste.

What Is a Red Wine Blend for Fans of Full-Bodied Wine?

Full-bodied wines, sometimes called “brut,” have high alcohol content and create a “full” mouth feel. They complement rich, fatty foods like steak and pasta. If you prefer a full-bodied red wine, you can find many blend options. Red zinfandels often fit a full-bodied classification.

Another option is cabernet sauvignon-based wine. One of the most well-recognized grapes, cabernet sauvignon grows in almost every major wine-producing nation. It has thick, durable skin, resistant to the elements. It’s suitable for a wide variety of climates, meaning it can commonly appear in red wine blends.

What Is a Red Wine Blend for Fans of Light-Bodied Wine?

Light-bodied wines, as you might suspect, have lower alcohol contents and sit lighter in the mouth. You can find delicious light-bodied red wines using many different varietals. If you prefer wines with lower alcohol content, you might try a blend with a pais base, a prominent Chilean red wine grape.

Like red blends, white wine blends use a base wine mixed with other varietals to emphasize and buoy its flavor. Here are some of the best white wine blends depending on dry, sweet and other flavor preferences. Try a few white blends to find your favorite.

What Is a White Wine Blend for Fans of Dry Wine?

You’ll find plenty of dry white wine blend options incorporating different varietals. If you love a bottle of chardonnay, you might also enjoy a white Burgundy, otherwise known as “Bourgogne blanc.” A white Burgundy, from its namesake region in East-Central France, has a chardonnay base, with added varietals of aligoté, pinot gris or pinot blanc for a distinct flavor.

Another option is a white Rhone from Southern France’s Rhone Valley region. A white Rhone is a complex blend, including about six different white wine types. You could also consider a white Bordeaux, which features the flavors of sauvignon blanc, mixed with semillon and muscadelle varietals. If you enjoy dry white wines, you’ll appreciate white Burgundy, Rhone and Bordeaux blends.

What Is a White Wine Blend for Fans of Sweet Wine?

You can find sweet white blends from a range of different varietal bases, including riesling, moscato, aurore and many others. Some common sweet white blends include most moscato wines, which often feature bright fruit flavors and sensory floral notes. A moscato might be a single varietal or include other grapes in a blend. You can find moscatos with fruit flavors like strawberry, raspberry or pineapple. If you’re looking for a delicious sweet white blend, moscatos offer a great place to start.

You can also find sweet riesling-based whites. Riesling wines from Europe’s Mosel River Valley contain subtle mineral flavors because they grow alongside thin slate stones. The stones reflect and retain heat, allowing the grapes to ripen despite the area’s cool climate. This growing process contributes to a unique, complex flavor.

What Is a White Wine Blend for Fans of Full-Bodied Wine?

Popular full-bodied white blends include chardonnay-based blends, like a dry white Burgundy. You can also find delicious full-bodied blends with viognier bases or combinations of sauvignon blanc, semillon and muscadelle. Look for these varietals and full-bodied designations on white wine labels to find a full-bodied white blend.

What Is a White Wine Blend for Fans of Light-Bodied Wine?

Many white wine blends fit into the light-bodied category. Harvesting for white wine grapes often occurs early in the ripening process, when the fruits have less sugar, and higher sugar content makes for richer alcohol fermentation. If you’re looking for a light-bodied white wine blend, you’ll have many options to choose from. Most sauvignon blanc wines are light-bodied, as are some pinot grigios and chardonnays. Try blends with these varietals for white, light-bodied wines.

Blended wines are the result of winemaking magic. Vintners combine different grapes to create something original and new, playing with flavors, additives, aging and storage options. Every bottle of blended red or white wine is the result of a meticulous testing and tasting process. Enjoy those efforts with blended wine options at home from Marketview Liquor.

With Marketview Liquor, you’ll receive free shipping on six or more bottles of select wines. You can also test several wines and earn a mix-and-match case discount on eligible bottles. We’re happy to help you make exciting discoveries and thrill your dining guests by trying new wines. Browse our selection of red wine blends or white wine blends and have them delivered right to your door.When it comes to American wines, California seems to get all the attention. But those who are laser-focused on Napa and Sonoma are missing out. Upstate New York has quietly earned a reputation for excellent wine, and New York wine country has blossomed into a wonderful tourist destination.

To put New York’s wine industry into perspective, let’s turn to the latest research from the New York Wine & Grape Foundation. There are over 400 wineries and 1,600 New York State vineyards. This results in the production of over 175 million bottles of wine generating $408 million in local and state tax revenues. All told, it’s estimated that the New York wine industry generates $4.8 billion in economic benefits for the state of New York annually.

But as any wine lover will tell you, wine isn’t just about business! It’s about an undying love for the fruit of the vine. Quality is more important than quantity and, fortunately, the wineries in New York excel in this sense as well!

Seeing as we know a thing or two about wine, we decided to put together this guide to wineries in New York. Within the guide we will explore the history of grape growing and wineries in upstate NY and Long Island, along with an overview of the various New York wine regions and some of our favorite New York State wines.

So get ready to explore the best wine New York has to offer!

When talking about wine in New York, it’s important to understand the distinction between the two most prominent species of grape that are grown there. The species of grape native to North American is known as the Vitis labrusca. Some of the most recognized varietals of this grape are Concord and Catawba. While they are popular for the production of grape juice, along with jellies and jams, they are often considered inferior for producing wine. The European species Vitis vinifera is the grape that produces the vast majority of fine wines.

However, Vitis vinifera grapes were not achieved immediately. It took time, patience and trial and error to learn how to grow these grapes in cold outdoor temperatures and rainy conditions. Early attempts to cultivate these grapes in the northeastern United States were unsuccessful, as botanicals were extremely sensitive to these frigid temperatures.

Due to the area’s harsh winters, growing grapes was thought to be impossible here. However, comprehensive trials were performed in the Finger Lakes region of New York, producing results that proved otherwise. After discovering the necessary precautions to protect vines during the cold winter months, the microclimate proved suitable for growing these grapes.

New grape varieties were produced by Cornell University’s Geneva Experiment Station in the late 1900s, dramatically expanding New York State’s wine industry. This included white varieties of Cayuga, Chardonel, Horizon, Melody and Traminette grapes.

Today, many cold hardy grape varieties are grown in the Northeast, Midwest and mid-Atlantic regions of the United States, producing a wide range of flavors for winemaking. This includes Golden Muscat, Alden, Steuben and New York Muscat. Additionally, grape species such as Concord, Niagara, Delaware, Catawba and Diamond are produced from cold-tolerant vines that can withstand this climate.

The introduction of European grapes served as the springboard for the New York wine industry. However, it’s important that we not overemphasize the importance of the distinction, as some winemakers are starting to once again experiment with native grapes. In addition, some growers have also found great success with hybridizing the two species, giving grapes more of the European flavor character while preserving the native grapes’ hardiness in the New York climate.

Although the bulk of New York wines are made with European grapes, don’t write off a native varietal without at least giving it a try!

A Brief History of the Best Wineries in New York State

In many ways, American wine making began in New York. Settlers first began to experiment with grape growing in the 1600s, and the first licensed winery was located in Hammondsport. However, the story of fine wine production really begins in the 1950s, when Dr. Konstantin Frank began to experiment with growing famed Old World grape varietals in the Finger Lakes region.

By the 1970s, the success of Dr. Frank’s experiment began to catch on as more wineries began to switch from sweeter juice grapes to the finer European varietals. However, many growers are also sticking to New York tradition and creating fine wines using some of the French-American hybrids that had been earlier dismissed as lower-quality.

Out of this commitment to New York’s rich wine history, melded with bold experimentation, five distinct wine growing regions have emerged, producing some of the best New York wineries: Long Island, the Finger Lakes, Lake Erie, Hudson Valley and the Niagara Escarpment. Each region is earning its own distinct reputation while working together to draw attention to the great wine making being done in New York.

Long Island’s wine growing is concentrated on the eastern side of the island. Its emergence as a fine wine region can be traced to the early 1970s, as the first winery opened in 1973.

Long Island’s climate has been likened to Bordeaux, so it’s unsurprising that Long Islands vintners have focused on Bordeaux grapes. The warm summers are tempered by the cooling sea breezes, replicating the seaside growing regions of France. As a result, cabernet franc, merlot and sauvignon blanc are the primary grapes being harvested in Long Island. Compared with other wine regions in New York, Long Island gets quite warm in the summer. This is why their Merlots are especially well-regarded. However, the Cabernet Franc should not be neglected. Black pepper is well-balanced with fruity plums and a delicate licorice flavor. In many ways, these are the best cabernet francs outside of the Loire Valley in France.

But if you prefer whites, Sauvignon Blanc and Chardonnay are the most common. The former is probably the better representation of Long Island’s wine making skill.

This is a great region if you like a well-balanced variety of wines. Both strong reds and whites are grown on the island. It’s also a fabulous source of local produce, including asparagus, berries, tomatoes, squash and various root vegetables. This gives the North Fork a complete culinary vision, allowing you to pair excellent wines with fresh ingredients and great food.

As those familiar with Long Island geography will know, the eastern end of the island is divided into two forks. The southern fork is home to the famed Hamptons, where many of the rich and famous of New York spend their summer vacations. As such, much of this land is too expensive to be used for growing grapes. The northern fork, however, is much more affordable — and it’s here that you’ll find the vast majority of Long Island’s leading vineyards.

A number of wineries have become popular in Long Island, both for the casual and dedicated wine taster. There are around 40 wineries that you can visit. However, we especially recommend Bedell Cellars, Palmer, Pellegrini, Castello de Borghese, Paumanok, Raphael and Shinn Estate. If you happen to be taking a vacation in the Hamptons, it’s a easy drive to the other fork.

Located in the village of Sagaponack on the east end of Long Island, Wolffer Estate Vineyard has been committed to producing premium wines, spirits and ciders since 1988. With private event bookings and tastings, an unmatched passion and appreciation for winemaking and close proximity to the ocean that offers a refreshing breeze, Wolffer Estate is an ideal spot for wine-loving residents and tourists. Taste one of its delicious varieties such as its Summer In A Bottle with notes of fresh raspberry, banana and citrus.

Just as the state of New York started along the Hudson River, so too did New York’s winemaking. This region is home to the oldest winery in the US, the Brotherhood Winery, which was established in 1839. The winery, which only produces sacramental wines used in Christian religious services, was able to survive Prohibition because it was granted a religious exemption. Therefore, while many of California’s wineries closed down at the beginning of the 20th century, forcing the region to restart their wine industry after Prohibition was repealed, the Hudson River Valley continued to thrive.

However, while the Hudson River Valley holds a distinguished position in the American wine making world, on the whole, this is an underused wine growing region.

To put the valley’s potential in perspective, consider this: there are 225,000 acres of vineyard land available. However, currently only 500 acres are being used.

That being said, while the Hudson River region has a lot of room to expand, those who do make wine here are committed to their craft. While most of the various wine growing regions in the United States emulate and experiment with Old World grapes, the Hudson River proudly protects its own distinctly American wine making tradition.

As such, the two most representative wines are known as “Heritage Red” and “Heritage White.” While both are blends of older French hybrids, their production is tightly controlled by bylaws.

The region’s many hills help block the vines from the more intemperate cold air further north. Conversely, the river keeps the region cool during the hotter months.

As a wine tourism destination, this is an attractive place to visit, as it’s just a short drive from New York City. And while there may not be a large number of wineries to visit, the ones that do exist are definitely worth the trip. Besides the aforementioned Brotherhood Winery, the Hudson-Chatham Winery, Millbrook and Oak Summit are all excellent places to visit.

Royal Meadery is recognized as New York’s first licensed farm meadery and prides itself on sourcing fresh, natural ingredients and local honey. It was originally founded by Gregory Wilhelm, who wanted to combine his passions for brewing and beekeeping.

With the help of one of his college professors, Wilhelm opened his own meadery, a type of winery that produces honey wines. He now runs it with his wife, and together they produce a variety of sweet and delicious varieties such as its Barrel Aged Mead.

When people think of New York wines, the Upstate NY wineries in the Finger Lakes region are usually the first to come to mind. Of course, when it comes to making fine wine, the Finger Lakes, under the guidance of Dr. Konstantin Frank, started the trend in the state.

Because Dr. Frank was Ukrainian, he had an understanding of the climate of Upstate New York. Often much colder than most wine growing regions, the Finger Lakes have earned a sterling reputation nonetheless, especially in regards to their most famous wine: Riesling.

While the Finger Lakes, created by retreating glaciers, certainly define the region’s geography, they are also crucial for supporting the wine growing climate. The lakes stabilize the temperatures in an otherwise frigid part of the country. Similarly, when the summers grow hot, the lakes keep the region cool, again helping to provide ideal growing conditions for grapes.

The wine in the Fingers Lakes begins and ends with Riesling. They are known for their especially aromatic and dry version of the wine, although many wineries are also creating excellent sweet bottles. They also make excellent Gewürztraminer. However, if you prefer reds, they also have excellent Pinot Noirs and Cabernet Francs.

When traveling through the region, you should always make sure to check out the Dr. Konstantin Frank Winery. Not only is it still run by the founder’s heirs, but it also leads the way in producing the best Riesling in the Finger Lakes. But there’s a lot more than that for you to explore. There are over 11,000 acres of vineyards being used by 130 or so wineries. Agness Wine Cellars, McGregor and Kemmeter are all excellent wineries that also provide great tours and tastings.

There are also a number of distilleries, breweries and excellent eateries in the region, meaning you can combine your tour with a complete culinary experience. Plus, this region — along with perhaps Long Island — has the most developed wine tourism industry in place, meaning you can easily find tours and wine tasting experiences that are designed to make discovering Finger Lakes wine easy for those who are new to tasting.

Located in the heart of the Finger Lakes region, Bully Hill Vineyards is well-known for its outstanding scenery, artistic wine labels and lively winery tours. Its environmentally-friendly packaging practices use recycled glass bottles and boxes, soy-based inks and Tangential-flow filtration to minimize unnecessary disposal.

From sweet reds to strawberry and blackberry-flavored wines, Bully Hill Vineyards features a vast selection of fruits and natural ingredients to produce delicious and authentic flavors. Give these wonderful wines a try!

This is a traditionally Concord juice grape growing region that has only recently begun to explore the possibilities of fine wine grape growing.

The region is becoming known for its success in growing lesser-known varietals, including the French-American hybrids of Seyval Blanc and Vignoles. In addition, they are working to elevate native grapes, including Catawba, Niagara and Delaware. Like much of New York, Riesling also plays a prominent role in the region’s grape industry.

In addition, Lake Erie is earning a reputation for ice wine, which derives its dessert-caliber sweetness from allowing grapes to freeze on the vine before harvesting them.

This is definitely a region with plenty of room to grow. They currently harvest 20,000 acres’ worth of vineyards, although 90% of those grapes are currently Concord.

It should also be noted that this wine region crosses state borders into Pennsylvania and Ohio.

If you’re looking to stay in New York while exploring all that the Lake Erie region has to offer, we suggest checking out 21 Brix Winery. Woodbury Vineyards is also excellent.

This is a newer winery, having opened its doors in 2011. Winemaker and founder Kris Kane combined his experience on his parents’ farm with a wealth of wine making experience, both domestically and abroad in Australia, to establish 21 Brix as a true up-and-comer.

They offer a wide range of wines, including excellent Rieslings, Pinot Noirs, Cabernet Sauvignons and specialty Vidal ice wines. They also experiment with other fruit wines, such as cherry, blueberry and raspberry. Consider trying an Ella’s White with hints of pear or a Marquis to enjoy the fresh taste of pineapple.

The visitor experience is truly wonderful, as they feature a 60-foot tasting bar, and the winery itself is nestled right along the shore of the lake. They are open daily for tastings, and host a number of special events as well.

Or, if you’re in the area, just keep an eye out for Ella, the life-sized pink elephant that guards the entrance to the winery along Route 20!

The Niagara Escarpment is a new winemaking region to be sure, but they also have good neighbors to emulate. Ontario has grown in reputation, especially when it comes to ice wine, and Niagara is looking to capitalize on that success.

This is also definitely a small region. Only 800 acres are currently being cultivated, with a total of approximately 15 wineries producing wines. But, in a sense, this plays to their strength. Ice wine can be consistently produced, and the smaller scene means that each winery can focus on doing what they do best.

Furthermore, wine experts are confident that, as Niagara grows in renown, this is a region due for an explosion.

As for wineries worth exploring, Spring Lake and Niagara Landing are both well respected and are a great place to start if you’re looking to get in on the ground floor of this up-and-coming region.

Niagara Landing Wine Cellars was the first winery to open in New York’s Niagara County in over a decade. The winery produces an array of award-winning wines, including a firey hot pepper wine, a popular and intriguing selection with customers.

With delicious samples offered in its own tasting room, statewide wine tasting events and 31 varietals ranging from dry to sweet, it’s no surprise that Niagara Landing brings back visitors time and again. Sip a delicious Loganberry, Raspberry Rosebud or Hot Pepper Sweet Red to drive your tastebuds wild!

New York’s Champlain Valley houses over three dozen wineries and vineyards on the Wine Trail. Due to the area’s unique soils and climate, the art of winemaking continues to thrive here each year — winemakers cultivate northern grapes that produce authentic and award-winning wines.

Serving as the border between Vermont and New York State, the region’s beautiful Lake Champlain produces hearty apples and other delicious fruits that thrive abundantly despite the cold climate. It also features cold-hardy “Minnesota” grape varieties among these plantings.

Visit one of Champlain Valley’s local wineries to taste a full-bodied red, elegant dessert wine or dry white made from the region’s lush, locally-grown grapes. No matter what type of wine you’re looking for, you’ll surely find something that satisfies your taste.

For over 30 years, Swedish Hill Vineyard & Winery has offered an extensive selection of wine products. Its wines range from very dry to very sweet and are available in multiple types, styles and flavors, providing something for everyone to enjoy no matter their preferred variety. Visit this lovely winery to browse its gift shop, enjoy its picnicking spots or taste one of its delicious wines. Whether you prefer a classic Riesling or a rich Svenska Red, you’ll surely find something here to treat your tastebuds.

We hope this tour through New York wine country has given you a glimpse into just how wonderful East Coast American wines can be. You don’t have to go to California or even France just to get a taste of the best fruits of the vine!

Whether you’re looking for a day trip out of the city or a more in-depth vacation in New York wine country, there are a number of excellent wineries throughout New York’s five main winemaking regions.

And, of course, for the rest of your wine purchasing needs, check out our cellars at Marketview Liquor.

We have one of the largest selections of New York wines available under one roof – available online or for pickup at our Rochester NY location following your wine tour. We take wine seriously, and we’re always here to connect you with your new favorite bottle.

Use our online store to search by region, grape varietal, free shipping, case discounts, or even price, making it simple for you to find the perfect wine for your tastes.

So raise a glass to all the great wine that New York has to offer. We look forward to sharing a toast with you!The world of wine is undergoing a renaissance — and if you’ve ever wanted to jump in, now’s the time! The wine trends of 2016 are emerging, so don’t get left out. Check out our guide to find out more about the methods and possible madness behind some of the coolest trends in wine, from the all-natural to the technologically enhanced.

You may not give much thought to the production process of wine, but it gets quite complicated on a commercial scale. In fact, there are over 200 different additives a winemaker can use throughout the process, most commonly including sulfur, tannin, yeast and sugar. While nearly all commercially used additives in wine are perfectly safe, there’s a group of individuals who consider them a detraction from the art of wine-making.

These individuals and manufacturers emphasize the personality that shows through when wine is made simply using grape juice and the fermentation process. That personality is referred to as “terroir,” the sense of place imparted by a wine. Natural winemakers believe the best way to let a wine speak for itself is not to mask its voice, but to let it tell its own story with minimal interference. To that end, natural wines generally meet these criteria:
• No chemical pesticides or herbicides in the vineyard

It makes sense for mass producers of wine to carve the process down to a science. After all, the way they make money is by delivering a product that consistently tastes the same. However, consumers are now choosing wines more and more based on their story and how they tell it.

The idea of a small-batch wine made completely by hand may be appealing because of its character and novelty as well as its unique flavor. It brings attention to the ecology of winemaking and the subtle differences that can occur based on what local animals and insects affect the grapes’ growth. Even the fermentation and aging processes can be dramatically altered by the climate they happen in, and flavors show it when the wine is left to mature naturally.

Wine lovers looking for something different should definitely get a taste of the natural wine trend — not one is the same.

It’s pretty unlikely that any of your everyday wines have their vineyard altitude printed on the label, but this 2016 wine trend may change all that. A few winemaking pioneers, mostly in South America, have hit on a secret you may not believe: Grapes grown at higher altitudes have a distinctly different flavor profile than those grown in lower areas. Are they better? A few daring wineries certainly think so.

Nicolas Catena, owner of Catena Zapata Winery in Argentina, has been studying the effects of high altitude on the quality and characteristics of wine grapes for over 20 years, and he’s convinced that altitude does make for a better product.

According to him, there are a few key things that happen when you grow grapes around an altitude of 3,000 feet:
• Grapes are exposed to lower temperatures and higher solar radiation
• UV rays can penetrate grape skins more effectively and ripen the seeds
• Skins grow thicker in reaction to the same UV rays

It also turns out that wine grapes benefit from the limited water resources found at higher altitudes. “Water stress” as it’s called, leads to a higher ratio of flavor-producing compounds to water in the grapes.

Overall, this leads to grapes that show more concentrated flavors in their resulting wines. Thicker skins mean that the soaking and fermentation steps of winemaking will be richer in flavor and have a higher intensity of phenolics — the naturally occurring compounds in grapes that give wines their unique profiles.

If you’re looking for bigger, bolder flavor in 2016, the high-altitude wine trend is worth checking out.

Wine trends and supply are, of course, driven by the consumers — and who those consumers are makes a big difference in what they demand. As it so happens, millennials are proving to be the biggest growing market segment in 2016, and that means some interesting changes to the world of wine consumption.
• In the U.S., millennials make up 24% of the wine consumers’ market

While people age 21-33 aren’t the biggest section of consumers yet, they’re the fastest growing, and they drink much more wine than baby boomers did at the same age. This means millennial tastes are soon going to be the bulk on store shelves, but what do millennials want to drink?

You’re probably familiar with the craft beer movement — after all, it’s hard to ignore that novelty packaging. Winemakers are following in the same footsteps, creating new and unique brands that millennials identify with.

Marketing is an increasingly important part of appealing to millennial tastes, as you’ll find when perusing the wine section at your local store. You may have noticed a proliferation of boxed wine, single-serve packages and even wine in a can!

Over the next year, you’re also likely to see an increase in locally sourced wines and wine on tap, thanks to the happy and growing relationship between millennials and wine consumption.

Although wine is arguably one of our most ancient forays into science, it’s remained relatively low tech for the past several hundred years. But luckily for the tech geeks among us, one of the most interesting wine trends of 2016 is going to be the way we incorporate technology into the making and consumption of wine.

One pioneer in high-tech winemaking is Napa Valley’s Vineyard 29. Their wines are a fusion of tradition and technology, spearheaded by former Intel executive Chuck McMinn. According to McMinn and his team, there aren’t as many differences between the production of wine and computer chips as there are parallels, and the wine they produce displays the same attention to detail.

Each vine is fitted with sensors that measure the plant’s water intake, and staff can also measure how much of each desired chemical compound ends up in the wine. Though experts disagree on how much data collection can actually help the somewhat mysterious process of winemaking, we’re sure to learn more from this 2016 wine trend.

On the consumer end, we now have more ways than ever to find, buy and share wines. For example, the app Wine Ring allows new wine connoisseurs and veterans alike to learn a little something new about their taste profile. All you have to do is look up your wine in the database of over half a million labels and rate it on a scale from dislike to love. That’s it! The app’s algorithm will do the rest of the work for you, helping you to identify the next stop on your wine-sampling adventure.

High-tech winemaking and drinking are a great way to delve into the complexities of wine or simplify the process if it suits you. Anything that makes wine more accessible is a good thing in our book, so we’re glad to report that tech is one of the top wine trends of 2016.

Big, rich and alcohol-laden wines have had a good run for a while now. Being able to push the bounds of winemaking to their alcohol-producing utmost while still retaining a good flavor and profile has been looked at as a sort of holy grail for some time, but the fact is there’s a time and place for these types of wines — and it’s certainly not daily drinking.

With almost a third of millennials reporting they drink wine daily, it’s time for winemakers to catch up to the demand for high-quality wine that can be shared without worrying about unbalanced flavor and bitterness. Plus, for people who simply enjoy drinking wine, it’s helpful to know you won’t be too tipsy after one glass of a Shiraz that’s 15% ABV.

Wines that are lower in alcohol content allow for much subtler bouquets of aroma, as the complexities aren’t masked. Too much alcohol can also cause imbalance in an otherwise well-crafted flavor profile.

Lower alcohol wine is also one of the main aspects that makes some wines healthier than others. In fact, a 2012 study revealed that among people who drank red wine, gin and non-alcoholic red wine, the group that drank non-alcoholic red wine had blood pressure levels that were significantly lower. That implies that the lower the ABV in your drinks, the healthier it is. For baby boomers in particular, the upward trend in lower alcohol wine is great news!

As daily wine consumption continues to grow, lower alcohol wines will have an opportunity to come to the forefront as drinks that can be enjoyed on any occasion.

Consumers and connoisseurs have more tools than ever to try the vast array of fine wines out there — but one thing is still stopping them: accessibility. Top-shelf wines are too often served only by the bottle, since opening one and exposing it to air irrevocably changes its profile and characteristics — and if it doesn’t get sold, it will go bad within weeks. Add this to the growing public preference for wine by the glass, and both restaurants and patrons have struggled with how to handle more expensive bottles of wine.

Luckily, there’s one product that’s dramatically shifting the way wine is consumed — by eliminating the pour altogether. A company called Coravin has created a system that allows you to pour, taste and enjoy your wine without removing the cork and exposing the wine to the oxidation that degrades it.

How does Coravin work? The proprietary system uses secure clamps to hold the bottle in place while a thin, hollow needle accesses and extracts the wine without damage to the cork. The system then replaces the air in the bottle with argon gas, neutralizing any oxidation that would occur normally.

This is huge news for, well, everyone with a stake in the world of wine! Restaurants and tasting rooms will be able to offer nearly any wine by the glass, meaning that the variety of accessible, high-quality wines will be greatly expanded for those who want to enjoy them. Of all the new 2016 wine trends, this is one that has extremely high potential to become an industry fixture.

Most wine lovers have been known to indulge in a breakfast mimosa, but it may be time to start letting the bottle breathe through lunch. Coravin’s founder and chairman Greg Lambrecht is certain that sparkling wines are going to see more play in winemakers’ lineups this year.

What’s the appeal of sparkling wine? Well, for starters, it just tastes good — and that’s more important in the wine world than you might think. New wine lovers are more interested than ever in finding what fits their palate, and most people find sparkling wine easier to enjoy in both warm weather, and as a starter wine. Due in part to this, consumption of sparkling wine of all kinds has been increasing in recent years, as shown by these statistics:
• Prosecco in particular showed a 36% growth in sales

Rosé is making a comeback as well, with some interesting twists. Look forward to seeing rosé wines carried through early winter, and look out for the shift toward lighter red coloring and a fuller-bodied flavor instead of classic light pink varietal.

Where natural wines are a celebration of what’s not added to the wine, biodynamic winemakers focus on what is added. These two types of wine exist in a diagram where all biodynamic wines are natural, but not all natural wines are biodynamic. This is because the biodynamic approach to winemaking involves a highly holistic view of grape-growing, where the plants, soil, flora, fauna and even spiritual or metaphysical forces form an ecological system that should be respected and cared for.

A lot of people may turn their nose up at the methods behind biodynamic wines — and there is certainly an element of oddity to the process. You might see farmers looking to the phases of the moon to guide planting or harvesting patterns, or perhaps witnessing people filling cow’s horns with cow manure and burying them over the winter. It’s an interesting approach, but the results make it tough to doubt the method.

Biodynamic winemaking just so happens to go hand-in-hand with sustainability, though it’s not a necessary precursor. Today’s wine drinkers are often just as interested in where the wine comes from as in how it tastes, and biodynamic and sustainable wines help to lower the overall carbon footprint.

When it comes to wine, location can’t be ignored — so keep an eye out for wines from Australia, Portugal and South Africa. Over the past years, Napa and Bordeaux have dominated as the middle of the road for wine investors, but their pricing has been steadily inflating. As such, many are turning to Australian winemakers, whose products are often an excellent value for the quality.

Portugal is also an emerging producer of excellent wines, and there’s a huge range to explore. The country is home to over 250 varieties of grapes and a wide array of soils and climates. It’s the perfect place for winemakers to perfect old traditions and experiment with new ones, so next time you’re in the market for wine, check out the new and interesting wines Portugal is producing.

South Africa’s history with winemaking is a long one, but it’s only now that the country is gaining real notoriety as a producer of quality wines. Interestingly, the effects of the storm El Niño and a warming climate have caused an unprecedented variation among vintages, meaning that South African wines will have more character — and therefore more appeal — than ever before.

One of the most crucial elements of the winemaking process is the aging, and much of it is done in barrels. While white wines can get away with being “unoaked,” red wines almost always spend time in an oak barrel. This is a practice dating all the way back to the Romans, and for good reason: Oak is soft enough to easily make barrels out of, it’s fairly abundant and it’s waterproof. But even more importantly, it softens and smooths wines while imparting unique flavors. For example, oak barrel-aged wines often benefit from additional flavors such as caramel and vanilla, or even a buttery quality.

This tradition is getting a new twist, however, from winemakers who have decided to up the ante by recycling used liquor barrels for wine aging. Rather than going for the usual French oak, some winemakers are opting for charred American barrels that have held whiskey or bourbon.

Though many established experts scoff at such deviation from the French tradition, many others firmly believe there’s a place for fusion and experimentation. And it’s hard to argue with the Shiraz and Cabernet Sauvignon that come out of those bourbon barrels, and their exceptional notes of smokiness and vanilla.

If you’re the adventurous type, be sure to take a walk on the wild side with bourbon or whiskey barrel-aged wines in 2016. Check out 1000 Stories Bourbon Barrel Aged Zinfandel for an excellent value American Oak Aged red wine.

There’s a lot to learn and even more to love about the expanding world of wine, even if you’re halfway to sommelier yourself! Staying on top of new wine trends doesn’t have to be hard when you’re shopping from a wine store with friendly expertise – Marketview Liquor.

At our online store, you’ll find a huge selection wine and spirits. And if you need some pointers to help you find the latest and greatest of any wine, check out our blog and Mike’s Picks for excellent, affordable wines.

Buying in bulk? Marketview is the perfect place for that, too. Not only do we offer mix-and-match discounts on cases picked from select bottles of wine, but we also we save you money by providing free shipping on eligible wine bottles when purchasing six or more bottles.